This is Jockel Podcast number 324 with Eccletrails and me, Jockel Willink. Good evening, Eccle.
Good evening. Also joining us. Again, tonight is Jason Gardner. Good evening, Jason.
Good evening Eccle. Good evening, Eccle. Good evening, Jockel.
So we rolled in, we're talking about this book and a middle of a dissection of the life of Colonel Joshua, Chamberlain,
or General Joshua Chamberlain, the hero of Little Round Top, the 20th main who did a bunch of other things in his life.
One of the parts of this book that Jason, we were talking about before we got started was this letter from Joshua Chamberlain to Governor Coburn.
He's from headquarters 20th main volunteers in the field, July 21st, 1863. And here's what Joshua Chamberlain says.
And this gives you such a keen insight into his leadership and leadership. Dear Governor, I embrace a rare opportunity,
namely a day's halt within a few miles of our baggage to write you in reference to the affairs of our regimen in which I am well aware.
You feel the deepest interest. In the first place, allow me to thank you for the honor you have done me in entrusting my care, in entrusting to my care, this noble regimen.
I trust I shall be always worthy of the confidence you have thus placed in me. I consider it an officer's first duty to look after the welfare of his men.
To this, he is bound no less by the responsibility which the arbitrary nature of his power imposes than by the regard he should have to the interests of the service in which he is engaged.
My experience in several trying campaigns has taught me that the way to ensure the efficiency of the army is to keep the men in the best possible condition physically and mentally.
So, take care of your people and your people will take care of you. So we used to say about our gear. Take care of your gear and your gear will take care of you because you know you've got your parachute.
You've got your dive ready you'll get your weapon take care of your weapon and take care of you. Take care of your people and your people are going to take care of you.
Without the people, there is no mission. There is no mission. That balance which occasionally gets brought out. How do you balance it? What's more important? The people are the missions.
the people, without the people there's no mission. And if you have one mission that you're
going to do, I guess you can put the mission above the people, which are not going to be in that
situation, you're not. So the people come first. And by the way, this is important. If there's
alignment in what you're doing, what your mission is should help the people. So when you're in combat
and you're going out and you're taking the fight to the enemy, well, guess what? Now you can win the
war. Now you can get the people home to their families. Now we can protect the world from fascism
or from Nazism or from the Imperial Japanese Army or from communism. That's what these things are doing.
So when you're out there soldier, you're taking care of your people by helping to win the war.
Those should be aligned. That's why you had disalignment or on alignment in Vietnam or people
saying, hey, what is that? Leaning me, aren't doing anything to me. I don't care if this is communist
or not. It doesn't affect me. And so we're not aligned. It's a problem. Some people that people that
were saying, hey, we believe in the domino theory, we think it's all going to fall down. We need to
stop communism here. Those people were aligned and were proactively fighting the war.
Some people weren't. Same thing in a company. If I am trying to build a factory
so that I can take my people and put them in a better situation where they have better working
conditions, it's going to help them. If I'm trying to get my team to sell more widgets, well,
Jason, how many widgets did you sell on the sold three? Well, hey, Jason, you just sell more. Why?
Well, because I want you to be able to save money for college for your kids. Oh, okay. Yeah.
So the better you do, the better we do, the better we do, the better you do. Because by the way,
when you sell more widgets, we and echo sells more widgets. Now we can produce more widgets. That
lowers our cost to produce. Now we can lower our prices. So you can sell even more widgets. So we can
so the mission and the men should be aligned. The mission and the people should be aligned. The
goals should help. If what I'm doing is saying, hey, Jason, sell more widgets. And you say, why?
And I say, because I want to line my pockets more, what, we're not aligned. We're not aligned.
But if I'm saying, hey, sell more widgets. So we can lower the price point. So you can have more job
security. So you can, you know, buy good, get it down payment for your house. All those things.
We want things to be aligned. When they're not aligned, that's where we're now problems.
Taking care of your people is not letting them come in late and leave early. Or letting them fall
sort of the standards. And so that's really interesting. I like how we're broken out. And I think
I'm going to laugh chapters of steel. My soul just heart reads warning guys about being popular.
And folks want to be popular. Oh, yeah, I'll just let them smoke cigarettes because they want
to smoke cigarettes on watch and then crack. Oh, they get killed. Being popular is not taking
care of your people. And when you try to maintain a standard, you're making them better people by
bringing them up to a stand. It helps them. It helps them stay alive. The the contrary to that
is, or the opposite dichotomy of that is, hey, I'm just going to impose my rules on these people.
They're not going to know why. They're not going to know how it helps them. They're not going to
know that smoking in a watch position at night can get you killed by a sniper. So instead, you just
mandate these rules. And if you, hey, I don't care, from popular or not. That's not a good attitude
to have. If you're not, look, you shouldn't be doing things to be popular. But if people don't like
you, that work for you, that's also a problem. That's also a problem. And if that, what I just said,
makes you shudder a little bit and thinking, you know, I'm not sure if I'm on board that. You need to
check yourself quite frankly. You need to check yourself. I haven't worked for a leader that was a good
leader where everyone said, yeah, I don't like that guy. They might say something like, hey, man,
he can be a bit hard. But he makes sense. But he's doing it for the right reasons. But sometimes
we're a little bit too slack. The leader that, hey, we all hate him, but we're going to do what he says.
Doesn't really exist, man. No, at least you're not going to do it to the best of your ability,
right? When I think about all those leaders that I worked hard for because I was like, I worked
hard for this leader because I was worried he was going to yell at me. He got this much effort out of
me. The leader that I worked hardest for was the person that I was terrified of disappointing,
like Delta Charlie. Yeah. Yeah. And why, why in the world was I terrified of disappointing Delta
Charlie and every other leader that I put in that category, it's because they treated me with respect.
That's all you got to do. So, treat everybody with respect and then your life is going to be that
much easier, especially your subordinates because they're going to work hard for you because it
will be terrified of disappointing you. Yeah. And then, okay, well, what if they're just going to take
advantage of you? Guess what? There's going to be some people that are going to try. They're going
to be, you got a team of 20 people. There's going to be two or three of them that are looking
to cut corners looking to slack off. That's true. It's true in a seal puttune for crying out loud.
In a seal puttune where they go through hell week and they go through buds and they're highly
selecting all that stuff. Yeah. Some of those people get to a puttune and they don't want to do shit.
They want to freaking cut quarters. They want to go home early. They don't care. That's what
happens. You get those guys and puttune and they're not going to, they might not commit hanging
offenses. They might not like skip work or leave their weapon unattended or something like that.
Which, okay, if they're that bad, you can get rid of them but they know where the line is
and they just they just tiptoe on that line. And so there's people like that. There's people like
that in every organization. And if you then treat everyone in your organization as if they're that
person that's trying to get away with what they can and that's how you treat everyone. You're not
treating them with respect. You're micromanaging them and it's going to come back and haunt you.
What's so here's an interesting thing. It's like sometimes sometimes I'm weak and I'm that guy
trying to leverage a friendship against the standard. And then when a leader is like, no bro,
you got to do it this way. I don't lose respect for them. Check. I'll be in a week.
Again after it. I want examples of bro. What's the example of that?
That's a good boy. I'll shoot. Like, um, one to come in late.
Oh yeah. You know, or like, uh, maybe it maybe on this dive, I should be the dot and here,
here's a secret for everybody. Seals don't like diving. And so guys will try and wiggle out of it
and find other things to do and stuff like that. And so I know at times that I've tried to wiggle
out of a dive and then I'll get that leader. Just all I got to do is raise their eyebrows.
Maybe they say something like bro. Yeah. Really? Yeah. No, really.
That's like that story. That's all about delta Charlie. So delta Charlie's a guy I wrote about
leadership strategy and tactics. He's a guy that I work for in my second puto and you work for him at
trade at just like everyone just a universal respect, admiration and love for the guy. But we we had
done a hydrographic reconnaissance. It on red beach like with for the Marines. And you know, it's
all night or freaking waves for huge. We got our asses kicked. It's freezing. We go back. We make the
chart in the middle of night, blah blah blah. And then the Marines landed. So we support their landing
and they didn't like their landing. It didn't go the way they wanted it to. So Marines like we're
doing it again. So everyone went back to the ships and they're like, okay, well, seals. You got to
do the hydrographic on again. And we're all like, oh, whatever. I mean, okay. So we launch the boats and
we're kind of in the wall. Like we have all the information. We've already done the charts. We've
done the graphs. And someone thank God it wasn't me. Is like, hey, are we actually going to do this
recon and Delta Charlie's like, well, we don't have to. And then he says, but would that be the right
thing to do? It was like, oh, I'm like, I'm so glad I didn't say it. I don't want it to do. It's freaking
freezing dude. It's freezing. It's going to be a four hour evolution kicking through the surf and
like being that guy. And actually, this wasn't me because I was a radio man. So I was in the boat with
the GPS like marking our spots. So I wasn't the one that's going to suffer. But the number four man
or five man that's getting pounded by four foot waves for an hour as we do a freaking
perp and or no parallel recon off the flutter board. I hate to admit it. But I've had to
heard swimmer scouts in like three times before I actually rolled out of the boat. Because I
didn't want to because I was so cold. It's from skeleton. Okay. It was a close circuit. It was a
little closer. Get in. Okay. So that's why we take care of our people. That's what we're talking
about with this incredible leader Joshua Chamberlain. It's a bunch of examples too. We'll hit
up where you're just treating his guys with the most respect. Yeah. And I mean, just look at the
way on the last podcast. We talked about the way he treated mute nears. The way he treated
prisoner mute nears with respect. Listen to what they had to say. Said, okay, I got your back.
And as soon as he said, he was going to take care of them. They took care of him. So
take nothing else away. Freaking take care of your people. Going back to the book here. This is
this is from a where starts talking about military operations on the white oak road. The operations
of the fifth core on the white oak road. And once again, this is after he's coming back from
five months of recovery and getting sent back from line after he got shot hit the hip arteries
blown apart. He's just stuck away. Yeah. And then it gets hospitalized. It gets sneaks away
to get back to the front. Fifth core on the white oak road, 31st of March 1865,
were more serious in purpose and action than has generally been understood. He says, and again,
we're trying, I'm trying not to try. I'm trying not to talk through the entire scheme of maneuver
on these things. It's much easier to do that visually than through the audio format. But just to give
you some general understanding of the scenario, Lee's army during the previous winter had become
much weakened by lack of supplies, desertions, and general demoralization of the Confederate
cause and Grant was determined to take decisive measures to break the whole Confederate hold on
Virginia. He planned a vigorous movement to cut Lee's communications and also those of Richmond
and at the same time to turn the right flank of Lee's entrenched line before Peter's burrck
and break up his army. Again, the reason we're still talking about Peter's burrck, which we talked
about on the last podcast is because that's a nine months of entrenched warfare of trench warfare.
The scope of grants intentions may be understood from an extract from his orders to Sheridan.
So now we're talking about General Grant on March 28, 1865. He says,
the fifth army corps will move by Vaughn Road at 3 a.m. tomorrow morning. The second moves at about
9 a.m. move your cavalry as at as early an hour as you can and passing two or through
didn't witty reach the height and rear of the enemy as soon as you can. It is not the intention
to attack the enemy in his entrenched position, but to force him out if possible. Should he come
out an attack us or get himself where he can be attacked move in with your entire force in your own way
and with the full alliance that the army will engage or follow the enemy as circumstances will dictate.
So the reason I wanted to point out this orders because think about this is really good decentralized
command. Hey, do this in your own way. Figure it out. I don't care and we'll back you up. Cover move.
I shall be with you on the field and we'll probably be able to communicate with you.
That's that's not a great calm square. I'll probably be able to communicate with you. Guess what?
Should I not do so and you find that the enemy keeps within his main entrenched line you may cut loose
and push for the Danville road? If you find it practical, I would like you to cross the south side
road between Peter'sburg and Berksville and destroy it to some extent after having accomplished
the destruction of the two railroads which are now the only avenues of supply to Lee's army. You may
return to this army or go into North Carolina and join General Sherman. So very broad strategic guidance
about what he wants done. Plenty of decentralized command happening there. It's good stuff.
In his personal letter to General Sherman of March 22nd giving the details of his plans for
Sheridan's movements, he adds, I shall start out with no distinct view further than holding
Lee's forces from following Sheridan. That's the only thing he's trying to do. That's a great
this is when we talk about commanders intent. That's the commanders intent right there. I got no
distinct view other than holding Lee's forces from following Chega. That's what I'm going to do.
But I shall be along myself and we'll take advantage of anything that turns up. These are flexible,
good plans. Fast forward a little bit. Our whole division had arrived at the
chapel, the Shappel house. When at about noon my command was ordered to retrace its steps by the Vaughan
to the Quaker Road and push up toward the salient of the enemy's works near Burgess Mill.
Again, if you want to pull out a map, go pull out a map and you can see exactly what that means.
All this stuff is so well documented. Fording the run and forcing the position, we soon
developed a strong line which had entrenched itself as an advanced post to cover the important
point at Burgess Mill. After stubborn fighting for over two hours, involving a loss to
us of 167 killed and wounded, including some of our most valued officers. I don't know why he
doesn't. He doesn't describe that battle in much detail in this section. Other than the destruction
it was caused, including some of our most valued officers and a much heavier loss to the enemy,
of whom more than 100 killed and 50 wounded with 160 prisoners taken by a sudden countercharge,
fell into our hands. We pushed the enemy quite back to the white oak road and into their
entrenchments behind it. On the 13th, the fifth corps, relieved by the second, moved to the left
along Boiton Road advancing. It's left towards the right of the enemy's entrenchments on white
oak road. Lee also apprehensive for his right sent McGowan South Carolina Brigade and MacRays North
Carolina of Hillscore to strengthen Bushrod Johnson's division in the entrenchments there.
So again, trying to set this up a little bit for you. The precise details of these orders and
movements were of course not known to General Grant. So General Lee's got stuff going on which
you know, just heard me kind of lay out of course General Grant doesn't know what's happening.
But enough had been developed on the Quaker Road to lead Grant to change materially. His original
purpose of making the destruction of the railroads, the principal objective of shared in his movements.
At the close of our fight there Grant had dispatched Sheridan, our line is now unbroken from
apimatics to DynWitty. I feel I now feel like ending the matter if possible before going back.
I do not want you there for to cut loose and go after the enemy's roads at present.
In the morning push around the enemy if you can and get onto his right rear.
The movements of the enemy's cavalry may of course modify your action.
We will act together as one army here until it is seen what can be done with the enemy.
So he's making some adjustments to what his original plan were. Still giving some, you know,
some statement that the enemy gets a vote and you can modify your what you're doing. You can
modify your actions is actually what he says. And you know, part of the reason I'm going through
some of these commands because it's it's interesting to hear what these orders were like.
And how they came across and the importance of writing well and being able to write things
in a simple clear concise manner that everybody understands. So important. It's also important to
realize that no matter how clearly you think you articulate something, the chances of that
person having it and understanding it, it's exactly the manner that you wish to convey it
are not strong, which is again another proactive reason to maintain flexibility in what you're
telling people to do. And if you give them what the objective is, look, it's a lot easier for me
to tell you hey Jason, we're trying to get to this hill over here. That's it's pretty hard.
I want you to seize this hilltop. It's hard for you to miss and interpret what I say. Hey,
go seize this hilltop. You need to go take that hilltop. Okay. Well, you know what you're doing.
Now if I start saying hey, I want you to take that hilltop and I want you to maneuver
this direction, plus I want you to set this up over here. Now those are a bunch of things that
can get miss and interpret it. Yeah, or we need to lay our artillery fire down on this thing.
Get me to a good spot to lay our artillery fire and then I can choose the hilltop that makes
the most sense for me. Yeah. So simple, clear concise. That concise piece is a real thing.
When you start talking too much and trying to convey too much and there's a balance, of course,
you know, like take the hill. That might not be enough. If I say take the hill in order to provide
artillery support to this spot. Now you can make all kinds of things happen.
Oh, communication. Fast forward a little bit. My command was the extreme left of our lines.
My own brigade along the difficult branch of gravel. We run facing toward airies
with the, and that's another another leader out here with Gregory's brigade, which had
reported to me for this campaign refused, which is a term that meant bent back at right angles.
So as to face, Westerly, along a country road leading from Boydon to Claireborn Road.
And this is where we can start to get into a little bit. It may seem strange that in such a state
of things, Warren should have been made, should have made the suggestion for a movement to his front.
But he was anxious as we're all his subordinates to strike a blow in the line of our main business,
which was to turn Lee's right and break up his army. Wet and worn and famished as we all were,
we were alive to the thought that prompt, that promptness and vigor of action.
What we like to call violence of action would at all events determine the conditions and chances of the
campaign. And if this movement did not involve the immediate turning of Lee's right in his
entrenchments, it would secure the white oak road to the west of them, which Grant had a
shirt shared in was of much importance. And would enable us to hold Lee's right in check so that
Sheridan could either advance on white oak road towards us and Burgess Mill as Grant asked him to do
or make a dash on the south side railroad and cut their communications and turn to right
by a wider sweep as Grant had also suggested him do. Late in the afternoon, Warren received
through general web chief of staff the following order. General, mead, general, mead directs
that should you determine by your reconnaissance that you can gain possession of and hold
white oak road, you are to do so notwithstanding the order to suspend operations today.
So he's getting told, okay, if you go do a reconnaissance, this is what Warren's getting told.
Go do a reconnaissance. If you think that through your reconnaissance, you can take white oak road
and you can hold it. Then do it. Unless we tell you not to do anything today.
Okay. And so this just turns into the biggest, I had a hard time like he's trying to explain to
us how much confusion was going on there. Yeah, I was like, oh my gosh. Yeah, and that's
trying to track the confusion and I'm getting confused. Yeah, like I guess I didn't even need to say like,
hey, this is going to be confusing and it's harder to track. Even if you go watch the video on YouTube
with the animated pieces from 40,000 feet, you're still going to have a little, I'm going to
want, I'm going to watch that again. Wait, who is this over here? But so he gets told, hey,
if you think you can take it, take it and this is what Chamberlain writes, this gave a sudden turn to
dreams. In that humiliation, fasting and prayer, visions arose like prophecy evolved. We felt the
swing and sweep. We saw the enemy turn front and flank across the white oak road, shared and
flashing on our wheeling flank, cutting communications, and flating the Claireborn entrenchments,
our second core over the main works followed up by our troops in the old line,
seizing the supreme moment to smash in the Petersburg defenses, scattering capture all that was
left of Lee's army and sweep away every menace to the old flag between us and the James River.
Mirage and glamour of boyish fancy measuring things by its heart, day dreams of men familiar with
this aster, drenched in famous, but building as ever, castles of their souls above the level
river of death. What a way to say, hey, bro, don't get your hopes up too high. This is when you're,
what is it? You're emotions outweigh your capability. What's that? That's her. The capability.
Don't let your enthusiasm outrun your capability. That's what he's talking about here. Hey,
if we, if we go, man, we can take white oak road, we can freaking cut the lines. We're going to do it.
All we're going to win it all. Day dreams of men familiar. This was scary. Men familiar with
this aster. These are hardened combat veterans and they're drenched in famished, but they build
castles of their souls above the level river of death. Such a good warning to us. Don't
let your enthusiasm outweigh your capability. It was mingled with feelings of mortification,
apprehension and desperation that in the very ecstasy of these visions, word came to us of Sheridan's
latest dispatch to grant the evening before that pickets division of infantry was deployed along
the white oak road, his right reaching to five forks, and the whole rebel cavalry was
massing at that place, so Sheridan would be held in check by them instead of dashing up as was his
want to give a cyclone edge to our weeling flank. Grant's dispatch to me transmitting this was a
dire disenchantment, the Nell rang thus. From this dispatch, Warren will not have the cavalry
support on his left flank that I expected he must watch closely his left flank. So now we're
getting told we're all excited and now we're being told. No, you're not going to have any support.
And this is this is the ups and downs of war, right? The highs and lows of combat. It's go,
it's not a go. It's a go, it's not a go. Although Grant had given outward that there should be no
movement of troops that day, Lee seems not so to have Lee seems not so to have resolved.
So the enemy gets a vote, hey, we don't think there's going to be any movement this day.
Lead in the degree with that. Lead it. We wasn't part of that plan. Driven to seize every advantage
or desperate expedition, he ordered four brigades to move out from their entrenchments, get across
the flank of the fifth court and smash it in. We did not know this, but it was the very situation
which Grant had made for the occasion for attacking ourselves. It was a strange coincidence,
but it was to both parties a surprise. The enemy gets a vote. That's what's happening.
This was the condition of things and of minds when the advance ordered for the white oak road was
put into execution. Eres advanced, soldier-like, as was his nature, resolute, thumb-hearted,
fearing nothing and truth not fearing quite enough. Although he believed his advance would bring on a
battle he moved without skirmishes, skirmishers, but in a wedge-like formation guarding both flanks.
The enemy onset was swift and the encounter sudden, the blow fell without warning,
enveloping Aries complete front. General Hunting says they were not expecting to strike our troops
so soon and that the attack was not made by usual orders, but that on discovering our advance
so close upon them, a gallient lieutenant in his brigade sprung forth in the front of his line,
waving his sword with the shout, follow me boys, whereupon all three brigades on their right
dashed forward into the charge. There's a little decentralized command.
Well that's the reverse of what happened on the roundtop, right? They do a bayonet charge. They
destroy numerically superior force because they took him by surprise and here
this is the confederates doing it to them. And actually, they're like, oh well they didn't do it by
the little pit, they got in that echelon and so there's a little bit of complacency there
which will always get you. Yeah that'll always get you. Luckily you got some
young lieutenant that sees what's happening and says you know what, I'm going to make something happen.
We're going on the counter, follow me boys. Went for up was overwhelmed in his superior
and his support to demoralized. All he could hope for was to retire in Gordon order,
meaning retreat. That's what he's hoping you'll be able to get out of there. This he exerted
himself to effect, but this is not an easy thing to do when once the retreat is started before
a spirited foe superior numbers or in the flush and rush of success. So they confederate guy that
did the decentralized command and just charge them, right? Yes. And that just broke them.
The, the, and now we've got the union saying, oh we got a retreat like we're screwed.
Um, which is bad. And then he talks about worse. Yeah, well it's worse. And he said he's this,
this wind drop, all he can hope for is that they can get out of there like not losing control.
And he says he tries to make that happen. But it's not an easy thing when the retreat is started
before a spirited foe superior number. So there's more confederates, they're fired up,
they're flush from having being like they got momentum going on and in vain the gallant
Dennis and strove to stem the torrent, a disabling wound struck down his brave example. And the
effect of this shows how much moral forces have to do in sustaining the physical. So you've got
a gallant individual that's trying to get to stop people from just running away. Because if you just
run away, you're going to take massive casualties. Look, if you retreat, you're going to take casualties.
But to put it in very simple terms, if you don't cover and move as you retreat, you're going
to get slaughtered. So you've got to say, okay, you know, platoon over here, you guys laid that down
fire, we'll go back 50 yards, then we'll lay down fire for you. You have to do that. If you just
all get up and turn tail, you're just going to get shot in the back. And you're going to get slaughtered.
So the leadership is trying to make that happen, trying to make it an orderly retreat.
And this disinvisual is stepping up, trying to like, okay, hey, platoon hold and all of a sudden
he gets shot. And then he says that the this effect shows the moral, how much more the moral forces
have to do and then sustaining the physical. So when that happens, it just falls apart, brigade
after brigade broke. And that instant brigade after brigade broke. That strange impulse turned
a panic took effect. And the retreat became a route. Aries like a roaring lion in devours to check
the disorder and make a stand on each favoring crest and wooded ravine button vane. His men stream
past him. Oh, so he's every time he gets a little terrain feature, Aries steps up and hey,
hold up. Hey, let's get some cover fire. They just run by him. They come back on Crawford's
veteran division and burst through it in spite of all the indignant Kellogg can do involving this
also in the demoralization and the whole crowd comes back reckless of everything but to get
behind the lines on Boitner Road, plunging through the swampy run, breaking through Griffin's right
where he and Barlett reformed behind the third brigade. So finally, they rum back behind friendly lines.
The enemy pursuing swarmed down the bank opposite us and are met by sharp fire of muscatry
and artillery which we had made ready on hearing the noise of the retreat. So once the people that
are retreating get behind friendly lines, union lines, now the the enemy's common after them
and they engage. We were expecting them to fall in force on our left and Gregory's front.
When I was riding along that line anxious about this, when General Warren and General Griffin
came down at full speed, both out of breath, breath with their efforts to rally the panic
stricken man whose honor was their own and evidently under great stress of feeling. So now you
got General Warren and General Griffin come down on their horse to their out of breath and
they're trying to rally the guys because it's their guys. He says whose honor was their own.
It's their guys that are retreating. Griffin breaks fourth first and after his high proof
fashion General Chamberlain the fifth core is eternally damned. I have said some pleasant trees,
not until you are in heaven. Griffin does not smile nor hear but keeps right on. I tell Warren
you will wipe out this disgrace and that's what we're here for. Hey it's all on you bro it's all on
you Chamberlain we're we're we're damned. Then Warren breaks out with stirring phrase but
uttered as if in delirium of fever General Chamberlain will you save the honor of the fifth core.
That's all there is about it. That appealed demanded a shivalrous response. Honour is a mighty
sentiment and the fifth core was dear to me but my answer was not up to keynote. I confess that. I was
expecting every moment and attack on my left flank now that the enemy had disclosed our situation
and my little brigade had taken the brunt of things thus far but the day before the last winning
a hard fought field from which they had come off grievously thinned and torn and worn and
once I had hardly but fought myself that day. I had hardly brought myself away so he barely made
it off the last battlefield and we already talked about his casualties. He didn't talk much about
the previous battle but they had already taken a couple hundred or almost a couple hundred casualties
and he barely made it off. I mentioned Bartlett who had our largest and best brigade which had
been but little engaged. We have come to you you know that you know what that means.
I'll try it General only don't let anybody stop me except the enemy.
Right on. Yeah so they've been put in check a bunch of times you know hey hold what you got
not just in this battle but there's some specific moments when that happens where they're
getting held back held back held back and he says you know I'll try but don't let anybody stop
me but the enemy. I had reason for that protest as things had been going on.
They say back to I will have a bridge ready here in less than an hour. You can't get men through
this swamp in any kind of order says Warren it may do to come back on General it will not stop.
It will not do to stop for that now. My men will go straight through so they want to bring
like one of those pontoon bridges down. Chamberlain hey in an hour we'll have you pontoon bridge.
Otherwise you can not get me to do it. That'll do to come back. We'll come back on that bridge when
we're done. So at a word the first baton of the hundred ninety-eightth Pennsylvania major
Glenn commanding plunges into the muddy branch waste deep and more with cartridge boxes born
upon the bayonet sockets above the turbid waters. The second baton keeping the banks beyond
clear of the enemy by their well-directed fire. We got cover move going on by the way.
Until the first has formed in the skirmish order and pressed up the bank I followed with the
rest of the brigade in the line of battle and Gregories in column of regiments.
The enemy fell back without much resistance until finding supports on broken strong ground.
They made stand after stand. Griffin followed with Bartlett Bartlett's brigade in reserve.
In due time areas troops got across and followed up on our left rear walk Crawford
with somewhere to our right and rear but out of sight or reach after we had once cleared the
bank of the stream. After sharp fighting here we drove them across an extensive field to some
works they seem to have already prepared of the usual sort in field operations, logs and earth
from which they delivered a severe fire which caused the right of my line to waver,
taking advantage of the slight shelter of a crest in the open field I was preparing for a final
charge when I received an order to hold my command and defend my position as best I could.
I did not like that much. It was a hard place to stay in. The officer who brought me the order
had his horse shot under him as he delivered it. So here you are, you're ready to make a
charge and all of a sudden they say, hey hold you got. And by the way the person that told you to
stay there just had his horse shot out from under him. I rode back to see what the order meant.
I found General Griffin in general warned in the edge of the woods overlooking the field and
reported my plans. We had already more than recovered the ground taken and lost by the second and
third divisions. The fifth corps had been rapidly and completely vindicated and the question was now
of taking white oak road. So they've gotten back all the ground. The fifth corps,
yay we delivered. You wanted me to rectify the honor lost by the brigade. By the course,
sorry, we did it. And he says, I proposed a Gregory to put Gregory's brigade into those woods
by battalion in National on by the left by which formation he could take in flanking reserve and
succession. My any attacks on my right when Gregory should be well advanced. I would charge the
works across the field with my own brigade. My plan being approved. I instructed Gregory to keep
in the woods. So, it's another great example of pushback. They tell him, hold, he goes way to second.
They're not seeing something. And I'm seeing goes back and talks to his leadership and says,
I got a better idea. How about this? Yeah. And they say, get some. And the moment he struck any
opposition to Opo. This is another part of the plan was at the moment. This was for Gregory.
The moment he struck any opposition to open at once with full valleys and make all the
demonstration he could. And I would seize that moment to make a dash at the works in my front.
Had I known to the fact that generally himself was personally directing affairs in our front,
I might not have been so rash or thought myself so cool. So he comes up with this plan and
later he finds out, I was generally he was going up against down. And now it gets down to business.
He says, what we had to do could not be done by firing. This was foot and hand business. We went
with a rush, not minding ranks or alignments, but with open front to lessen loss from long range
rifles. Within effective range, about 300 yards, the sharp cutting fire made us real and shiver.
Now, quick or never, on and over. The impetuous 180 fifth New York rolls over the enemy's
right and seems to swallow it up. The 198th Pennsylvania with its 14 companies, half veterans,
half soldiers born so swing in from their left striking huntins brigade in the front. And for a
few minutes, there is a seething wave of counter-currents, then rolling back leaving a fringe of
wrecks and all is over. We pour over the works on across the white oak road, swing to the right
and drive the enemy into their entrenchments along the Claireborn road, and then establish ourselves
across the road facing northeast and take a breath. There's a footnote in here. General Hunton,
since Senator from Virginia, said in his testimony before the war in court, speaking of this
charge, the charge that he led, the charge that chambered in lead, I thought it was one of the most
of gallant things I had ever seen. Major Woodward in his history, the 198th Pennsylvania,
giving a graphic outline of the last dash closes with an incident I had not reported recorded.
Only for a moment he says did the sudden and terrible blast of death cause the right of the line to
waver. On they dashed every color flying, officers leading right in and among the enemy,
leaping the breastworks, a confused struggle of firing, cutting, thrusting, a tremendous surge of
force, both moral and physical on the enemy's breaking lines and the works were carried.
Private Augustus Zeber captured the flag of the 46th Virginia in mounting one of the
parapids and handed it to General Chamberlain in the midst of the melee who immediately gave it back
to him, telling him to keep it and take the credit that belonged to him. Almost that entire
regiment was captured at the same time. It was scarcely needed be added that the man who captured
that battle flag was sent with it in person to General Warren and that he received a metal of honor
from the government. So again the representation of these flags is, it means that and the fact that
Zeber Caps Zeber Zeber Zeber Zeber? Yeah Augustus Augustus,
Zeber captures the flag and then he's like, hey man, you got it, you keep it.
Nobody misses that. Nobody. They're like, oh, that's the guy that's letting the team have the credit
and that's the kind of leader that you're going to die for that you're going to be afraid
of disappointing because he's pushing it and there's just an example of what after example of
him doing that kind of thing. Yeah that's literally what you said it's the the the flag,
the symbol of the enemy is this thing, this flag and that's all the credit. That is the credit.
And the young soldier gives him the credit and he says, no, you get the credit.
In due time Gregory came out of the woods, his face beaming with satisfaction at the result
which his solid work so faithfully performed had been essential. By the way this is just a giant
cover move. Gregory's over in the wood line laying down fire as soon as they got to a point where
they had good angle, he they let loose the fire and that was chambering signal to go and they went.
That's why there's no other tactic that's it. His brigade was placed in line along the white
oak road on our right and a picket thrown out close up to the enemy's works. This movement had
taken three hours and was almost a continuous fight with several crescendo passages and a final
cadence of wild chromatic sweep settling in the steady keynote thrilling with the chords of
its unwritten overtones and undertones. It had cost us a hundred men but this was all too great
of men like these and for oblivion. It was to cost us something more a sense of fruitlessness and
thanklessness. Fast forward in a little bit. Grant had experienced a sudden change of mine.
Mind a complete and decided one. His imperative order now received meant giving up entirely the
position we had just been ordered to entrench across the hard one white oak road.
That I mean after this it just turns into a huge mess which would take like three hours just to
try to entangle. I guess the biggest example of it is just really poor communication,
information coming in at weird times. Yeah we'll jump into that's worth jumping and that's
one of the reasons I felt like I had to sort of try and explain some of the maneuver, the scheme
of maneuver so that we could when we get to the kind of breakdown of all these orders that were
coming in when they came in. This is another one of those orders which is hey give up what you just
fought for that's the fruitfulness that he just talked about. This is why. And it goes then it says
Warren anxious to fulfill the spirit and object of the order rather than render a mechanical obedience
the letter of it since his nearest division under areas the strong stern old soldier of the Mexican
work to start once at once for Sheridan. This was the situation when half past 10 in the evening
came in order throwing everything into a complete model. It was for me to Warren send Griffin
promptly as ordered by the Bointon plank road but move the balance of your command by the road
Bartlett is on and strike the enemy in the rear who is between him and Denwitty. So now you can see
now the orders are becoming very very specific. Actually telling this person to go to this place and
do this thing. Instead of letting the people in the ground hey my intent is to get to the rear of the
enemy. If you said that to me cool I got a group that's even closer a group that didn't take
that many casualties or a group where I got a super aggressive leader and he can make it happen.
But when you give these very specific micromanaging directions you're going to impose things
on that you might not have intended. Who's the person best to solve the problem? The guy back in the
tent or the person closest to the problem. And that's what you're empowering those folks to do and
you're like hey here's what we need to do and then you figure out because it's just a it's all these
specific orders coming in. Yeah. It would have been guys around. Yeah and if you and if you
see something or know something from the tent that the person in the front can't know or can't see
then it's your job to inform them of that so that they can put that into the calculus of their decision
making process. Pat and said the Denwitty example but the leader on the front is always wrong. The
leader in the front is always right. The leader in the front is always right. So you support that guy.
Jason calls back and says hey I need air sport. Cool. I'm getting your sport. You tell me
you need another platoon? Sport cool. We're sending another platoon. I'm not saying what do you do
that? If I if you say hey I'm going to maneuver to the north instead of the south okay let me
make sure you have the support you need. Not what? Actually think it would be better to. Unless I see
hey Jason there's a massive enemy force coming in from the west. You need to see her clear there. Oh thank
you for telling me. Another by this order the core was to be turned and for end and inside out.
Four of Warren might be forgiven if at such an order his head slam and his wits collapsed.
He responds thus and has been much blamed for by those under his canvas. Then since
I issued my orders on general webs first dispatch to call back which made the divisions retire
in order of Aries Crawford and Griffin which was the order they could most rapidly move in.
I cannot change them tonight without producing confusion that will render all my operations
new gatorie. I will now send general Aries to general Sheraton and take general Griffin
a general Crawford to move against the enemy at this last dispatch directs I should. I cannot
accomplish the object of the orders I have received. He says look dude I've already got people in a
certain order out here if I start trying to rearrange them in the middle of the night are you kidding me?
No. But what inconceivable addition to the confusion came in the following dispatch from general
me to Warren at one o'clock at night would not time be gained by sending troops by the Quaker Road.
Again this is my bad micro management happening. One of the very first
academy briefs that I did on the academy was about I called it the whip.
And yeah I talked about we were but we were on the orgs we were on a ship and we're supposed to be
doing some training mission and we get told hey you're going to take your zodiac boats and
load them on a helicopter and go do this mission. Okay cool. So what does that mean?
It means about four or five hours of preparation zodiacs we got to get the the Mogas fuel
to the right part of the ship. We got to get the equipment prepped and loaded into the zodiacs
then we got to get the zodiacs moved to up to the helodeck and then we got to tie them all up with all that
freaking 10,000 feet of half inch and one inch tube your nylon put the honeycomb card board into
the bottom and put packed the freaking engine into it and there's this massive amount of work.
We're doing it and then we get word hey actually you're not going by helode you're going by
rib boat, rigid home, flatable boat. Okay so we start breaking all that stuff down. It takes us another
five hours to break it down and get these zodiacs ready to launch with the ribs.
Just as we complete that task what comes back actually is looks like it's going to be helos.
So this is some I've lived that same. Oh it's a nightmare and I called the whip because it's a
little tiny movement up at the top it's just a little oh we're going to use helos okay
he literally changes one word in a brief insert by helos insert by rib. Change one word in
this little briefing takes him four seconds and it costs us five hours of work and then very
quickly changes it back to ribs back to helos and so as leaders we have to understand the impact
that the little movement you have from the top takes on the bottom. Who corrected that?
I think we like deal art on the fourth change. Like no actually I just I think my
pertune comment I was like hey we we don't we can't actually do that the only thing we can
do is launch on whatever it was I think but that point was on ribs we can't we don't have time
to get he was ready what do you mean you're off time it takes five hours to rig four boats for freaking
oh yeah it's interesting and that's one of those things where dude I just raised your blood pressure
it there's because I've lived like somebody comes out of this air conditioned space where they're
doing it and they're like I live that in Gwang like hey we're going to do a stack duck
and we get all the way to where we get the jump master to come to a stack duck is when we have
we're going to jump two zodiacs via parachute and the rest of us are going to parachute and
then it turns into the limp duck where now it's not going to get parachute you did but it's just
going to get pushed out the back out of the locker. It's got to get re-rigged completely and everything
changes and you're just getting flailed around and and that's when mistakes happen and that's
one it's good that like hopefully there's somebody in there in in the decision making process it's like
hey you're jerking everybody around right now that's detached because the guys that are
they're making these calls they don't realize it they're just coming up with a bunch of good ideas
and they've forgotten what's happening at the end of that whip that they're rate waving around
continues on here rapidly changing plans and movements in affecting the single purpose for battle
for which battle is delivered or what a soldier must expect the end the ability to form them wisely
and promptly illustrates and test military capacity but the condition in this case rendered the
execution of these peculiarly perplexing orders had to pass through many hands and in the difficulty
of delivering owing to distance and the nature of the ground the situation was called which
called for them had often entirely changed hence some discretion as to the details in executing
a definite purpose must be accorded to subordinate commanders decentralized command thank you
the details in executing a definite purpose the purpose needs to be definite this is what we're doing
the details of execution let the subordinate commanders do it
look for a moment at the summary of the orders worn receive that evening even after we hit
reached white oak road affecting his command in detail one to send a brigade to manage the
enemies rear before shared but he had already but he had already a divid of his own accord set
Bartlett's brigade of Griffin's division the nearest troops by the nearest way you already had
the problem handle to send this brigade by the point in road instead of the crump this was a very
different direction and a very different tactical effect but impossible to recall Bartlett warnant sent
Pearson already on boyton road with a detachment of Bartlett's brigade three send Griffin's division
by point in road to shared and then draw back the whole court of that road Griffin's division
being widely and far scattered and impossible to be collected for hours warnant sends
airies division nearest and most disengaged four to send airies and Crawford by the way of Bartlett
had gone and insisting on Griffin's going by point in road this would cause airies and
Bartlett to exchange places crossing each other no longer difficult and needless march
airies having gone according to warnant orders Griffin and Crawford were to go by Bartlett's way
but Griffin had sent for Bartlett with draw from his position and joined the division
ready to mass on point road so this is just you can see why this is just mayhem it's total mayhem
and it's mayhem from micro management is what it is mayhem from micro management it is difficult
to keep keep a clear head and trying to see this into this model now we can imagine the state
of warnant's mind but this was not all within the space of two hours warn received orders
involving important movements for his entire core in four different directions these came in
rapid succession and in the following order one to retrench where he was on the wider
white oak road and be ready to fight in the morning this was from grant to fall back with the whole
core from the white oak road to boiten and send a division by this road to relieve Sheridan this was
also from grant number three Griffin to be pushed down point in road but the rest of the core
airies and Crawford to go across the fields to the crump road but the way Bartlett had gone
and attack the enemy in the rear who's opposing Sheridan this was from meet this required a
movement in precisely opposite direction from that indicated in the preceding order which was
now partly executed airies had already started number four needs advice to send these troops
backed by Quaker Road 10 miles around and give up the rear attack number five to these may be
added the actual final movement which was that airies went down the boiten road and Griffin and Crawford
went by dirt road across the country to crump road as indicated in meet's previous orders there's
one more thing general grant thought it necessary in order to make sure that Sheridan would have
complete an absolute command of his troops to send a special message asking me to make that
distinct announcement to Sheridan this is craziness the orders which came to general one that night
were a two an amazing degree confused and conflicting this is charging no blame on any particular
person we will call it if you please the fault of circumstances but of course the responsibility
for the evil effects of such conditions must naturally in military usage and ethics
rest upon the officer receiving them and when he is not allowed to use his judgment as to the
details of his own command it makes it very hard for him sometimes indeed it is not very pleasant
to be a subordinate officer especially if one is also at the same time a commanding officer but
in this case I think the trouble was the result of other recognizable contributor toary
circumstances if I might not say causes so he's got some other reasons why this stuff happened
this is just it's his maim and he's he's in writing the most articulate and eloquent case
for decentralized command and not micromanaging some of the reasons he says the awkwardness of
having in the field so many superior rather than coordinate commanders bunch of people make
bunch of chiefs no Indians and it's not really clear who's the main effort and I think they
shifted up at one point and you call this a double objective one point being Sheridan's independent
operations to cut the enemy's communications the other turning of leaves right and breaking up
his army by the entry which one of those this is prioritized next which one of these is more important
which one do you want us to do and by the way you can't just say both because both only works if the
enemy doesn't get a vote but the enemy is going to get a vote and so it's weather and so it's your
troops and so it's morale and so it's the supply chain like all these things are going to have an impact
so we got to know what's the most important thing you want done
number three these supreme commanders being as such a distance from the field of operation
on the 31st of March that was impossible to have a complete mutual understanding when orders were
put into effect you're not up there and you're making calls from the rear with the gear
number four time lost and sequence confused by the difficulty of getting over the ground to
carry orders or obey them oh into the condition of the roads or lack of them and the extreme
darkness of the night so yeah communication problems he says at three o'clock I had got my pickets
which were replaced by crawfers and let my men rest as quietly as possible knowing there
would be heavy burns laid on them in the morning so all this freaking chaos is going on and by the way
like when that whip hits the freaking infantry men that's out with his single last shoes that
I've put made from left freaking foot God and he's lost four of his friends and he's
hasn't eaten and he's thirsty after such a day and night as that of the 31st of March 1865
the morning of April 1st found the men of the 5th course strangely glad they were alive
they'd experienced a kaleidoscopic regeneration they were ready for the next new turn
the test of ordinary probation had been passed all the effects of humiliation fasting and
prayer believe to sink the body and exalt the spirit had been fully wrought in them
at the weird midnight trumpet call they rose from their fields as those whom death no longer had
any power they're pulling out for the march in the ghostly midst of dawn look like a passage
in the trans migration of souls not sent back to work out the remnant of their sins as animals
but lifted to a third plane by that three days of the underworld eliminating since incorporating
this old there's a word I had to look up trans migration that's basically reincarnation
so they're getting reincarnated not as animals but lifted to a third plane
there was an interesting note on here on the term infantry did you do the
etymology of the word infantry don't know it infant yep the lamest etymology I'd ever heard
I was so bomb that it almost didn't want to talk about it on the podcast but back in the day
the infantry were the people that weren't old enough or mature enough or of high status enough
to fight on horses and so they're infants they're the babies I didn't want to say this I can't
I can't not say it I can't say it's not true but that's where it comes from because what does he say uh
shared in it also come to the opinion that infantry was a good thing to have around however
by some queer break in the hierarchy of honor subordinated to the shavileers the biped
meaning the person to the quadripet meaning the horse and by some freak of etymology named
infantry the speechless because that's another thing like hey you don't need to say anything
you're infantry the speeches us whether because they couldn't talk or because they mustn't tell
sorry infantry troopers of the world you have my utmost respect and I apologize for the
etymology of your name torb they have no idea what to make of it we'll stick with grunts
the troops what's that uh I want to press fields book on on afghanistan the afghanistan campaign
they're one of the infantry guy goes you know what we are we're mules mules that kill yeah
it's all they do is walk and pack gear that's a good one then fight well the the dedication
in about face to all the go boys the ground pounders the grunts the american infantrymen there you go
go and back to the book the troops had enjoyed about four hours of this unwanton rest
when the cavalry having completed its reconnaissance were ordered for it and by the way he talks
about this there's a march that they take place that they have to freaking march their ass off
they to keep up with the cavalry horses we were trying to follow closely we're brought
this is the talking about the march we were trying to try to follow closely we're brought to
frequent standstill this was vexatious another good word for you armen being heard to the feet
in heavy marching order carrying on their backs perhaps three days life for themselves and a pretty
big heavy installment of death and for their antagonist and now compelled every few minutes
to come to a huddled halt in the muddy road marking time and marking place and also with deep
discontent in about two hours we get up to wear shared in wands us i think it's crazy
to that he in this in this elevated book he still talks about the fact that it sucks
when you're walking and you got to stop and then you go and then you stop and then you go
and you stop and it's hurry up and wait he even has to mention that that it's vexatious
to have that happen uh during this impatient waiting for the seemingly slow preparatory
formation our spiritual wheels were lubricated by the flow of discussion explanation about
the plan of attack shared and took a scape a saber a scabbard and described it graphically
on the lighter so this is the this is the classic hey he pulls out his sword and draws in the dirt
what we're gonna do the plan in general is for the cavalry to occupy the enemies attention
by a brisk demonstration along the right front of their works while the fifth course should
fall fall upon their left and rear by a sort of surprise if possible and scoop them out of
their works along the white oak road and capture or disorganize them cover and move
go ahead and we're back to where he was yesterday
because yesterday they were holding white oak road and they got jacked around and
drugged around and walked all the way around and now they're right back where they started
it's amazing that they just didn't just completely get pissed off and throw the rifle down
and there's all kinds of confusion in fact he says illities at such confusion of mind I
wrote over to general Griffin who with general warn was close on my left that the early stage of this
movement and asked for an explanation Griffin answers quickly we will not worry about ourselves
and diagrams we are to follow Crawford circumstances will develop our duty okay
well that's that that's more helpful than that diagram there about again
the start of movie says I halted my line and wrote ahead through the woods to some high
cleared ground the southeast and corner of a large field known as Sidnor Field along the opposite
edge of which I could see strong skirmishing along Crawford's front and turning suddenly looking
across broken scrubby ground could see Aries troops engaged in a confused world of struggling groups
with fitful firing so he's maneuvered into position where he can see what's happening there was
Aries fighting alone and that was not in the program meaning that wasn't part of the plan there was
Griffin down there that was an order enough for me and I took the responsibility of looking out
for the left instead of the right where my last orders committed me I pulled my my brigade out of the
wood by the left flank telling Gregory to follow and sending to Bartlett to let him know what I was
doing pushed across a muddy stream and up through our veen toward Aries halfway up Griffin
came to meet me never more welcome he gave the look I wanted and without coming near another
forward wave me to follow up to the head of the ravine and to attack on my right along the bank where
hidden by brush and scrub the enemy had a line perpendicular to their main one on white oak road
and we're commencing a slant fire and Aries direction Griffin road passed me toward Warren and
Bartlett so there's a bunch of things going on there number one he'd been told to do one thing
but he looks at what's happening and decides I got to do something else and on top of that
he then he actually tells other people hey I'm I'm adjusting the plan here so you know
I'm doing this I mean that's what right looks like yeah that's what right looks like and again
it's when you think about the details he's writing this book the detail that you just pointed out
was important enough to him to put it in here to say uh I let him know what I was doing
and you know when we mentioned on the last podcast about getty's broken hey this guy took
initiative it was good this guy took initiative it was bad what's the difference one of the there's
several differences one of the differences oh I took initiative but didn't tell anyone that's bad
oh I took initiative and tell people what I was getting to do then that's good that's one of the
things that makes it good so again you got to pay attention to what he's paying attention to
he's paying attention to all of us telling us leaders hey when you're gonna change something
you need to let people know what you're doing and then I just thought it's cool you know
talk about relationships and sort of like the silent leader just see the guy look at him I got
you the head nod we're going
Erie's fitful fire was approaching and I rode over towards it somewhere near the angle of the
works I met Sheridan he had probably seen me putting my men in and hence I escaped
censure for appearing indeed his criticism seemed to be that there was not more of me rather than
less oh by God that's what I want to see was his greeting general officers at the front where
your general officers I replied that I'd seen general warrants flag in the big field north of us
and that seeing Erie's was in a tight place I'd come to help him and by general Griffin's order
then cried he with a bigger of utterance worthy of an army and flanders you take command of all the
infantry round here and break this dam I didn't wait to hear any more that made good grammar as it's
stood I didn't stand for anything but spurred back to some scattered groups of men demoralized
by being so far on the rear and not far enough to do them any good yet too brave to go back
Captain forint and of Griffin staff came along and I took him with me down among these men to get them up
I found one stalwart fellow on his hands and knees behind the stump answering with wind
circle grimst grimaces to the bullets coming pretty thick and near look here my good fellow I
called down to him don't you know you'll be killed here in less than two minutes that would be a shame
this is no place for you go forward but what can I do he cried I can't stand up against this
all alone no that's just it I replied we're forming here I want for you to guide sinner up and forward
up and out he came like a hero I formed those reserves on him as a guide in the whole queer
line 200 of them went in right up to the front and like the thick of it my poor fellow only wanted
a token of confidence and appreciation to get possession of himself he was proud of what he did
and so was I for him freaking epic I got goosebumps from that man you know I tell that story
I was at trade-ed and like the mount situations going on and the guys are getting all their
ass kicked with paintball and everything and no one's making any decisions and I walked over to this
one badass E5 and I looked down and I go hey bro I go what do you think you should do right now he's
like we ought to freaking stone that building over there and get some freaking get some cover and I go
why don't you make it happen and the look on his face I wish I had a video he looked at
the look on his face was like wait why don't I make it happen you mean I can make this happen he
was a strong point that building immediately everyone's still he said freaking I think you might have been a
new guy might have been a one cruise wonder off the ask him because I know exactly what it is you know
awesome guy but just that right there I mean then now this is a combat situation dude you just
give that little bit of confidence you take charge this is taking ownership right when you
we start about giving people ownership you give them ownership hey I'm gonna make you the
center people always ask us what do you do when people not motivate give them ownership this is the
example hence forth this is the example of giving ownership I despise running despise it you're
not gonna catch me running unless I'm running toward a chocolate cake away from the police right
but if you tell me to lead a run I can run somehow it's like somehow it's like anyone who's leading
a run when you're doing a conditioning run you're like man they're really setting the space because
somehow you're buoyed up by all those people behind you you own it too yeah general win was
riding up and down their front in a demonstrative manner but giving no sign of forward movement I
thought this strange for him and bad for all of us in the pinch things were at and with the warrant
Sheridan had given me galloped down to him and asked him if he was acting under any particular orders
from general areas no general you replied with an error of relief I've lost areas I have no orders
I don't know what to do then you come with me I said I will take responsibility
you shall have all the credit let me take your brigade for a moment so that's in two pages
you've got giving ownership and taking ownership in two pages in two paragraphs really
and by the way I'll take responsibility you'll have all the credit this dude is like deal
deal and deal uh then Sheridan was by my side in a moment very angry you are firing into my
cavalry here we get blue on blue he exclaims his face darkening with a checked expletive I was
under a little pressure too and put on a bold air then the cavalry have got gotten into the
rebels place one of us will have to get out of the way what we have as do general don't you fire
into my cavalry I'll tell you was the fierce rejoiner so we got this freaking mayhem going on fast forward
a little bit more they kind of sort that out I plunged into my business to make up for a minute
it's lost time my men were still facing too much across areas front and getting into the range
of his fire we had got we had got to change that and swing to the right down the rear of the
enemy's main works it was a whirl every way was a front and every way was a flank the fighting
was hand-a-hand I was trying to get the three angles of the triangle into something like two
right angles and it swung my left well forward opening quite a gap in that direction when a large
body of the enemy came rushing in from that flank and rear they were in line formation with arms
at something like a ready which looked like business I thought it was our turn to be caught between
two fires and that these men were likely to cut their way through us rushing into the ranks of
my left battalion I shouted the order prepared a fire by the rear rank my men faced about at once
disregarding the enemy in the front but at this juncture our portness visitors threw down their
muskets and with hands and faces cried out we surrender running right up upon and almost
over us I was very glad of it the more astonished for they outnumbered us largely
that's the kind of turn of events such a like and it's it is one of those things that reminds me
that he could have surrendered right there he could have surrendered you know well we're surrounded
hey everyone drop your weapons it's that it's going that extra little moment right that extra
what happens in fighting in boxing and MMA fighting where that extra like I'll go one more round
who was it was that Ali Frischer and Ali had returned to his corner saying take off my
take off my gloves like I'm done and they you know they're basically no you're not done he's like no
I'm done and they said no you're not done so he's okay and I think it was Frischer said he was done
didn't answer the bell so he won but he was just that he could have easily surrendered but he did
held on for a little bit longer so he kicks into that too like those kind of his
remember when he when he was young again to Zulu what happened where he that he just felt like
now I'm kind of done and they're like oh yeah that's right he got to the after the first round
big bring hex and the side and they're like hey hex and says I'm done man I'm done like I can't this
isn't going to work I'm done I'm physically exhausted and they say no you're not done yet son
this battle continues the hardest hold up wasn't front of my left center the first
baton of the hundred and ninety eighth Pennsylvania I wrote up to the Gallant Glen commanding it
and said major Glen if you will break that line you shall have a Colonel's commission
it was a hasty utterance and the promise unmilitary perhaps but my every energy was focused on
that moment's issue nor did that earnest soldier need a personal inducement he was already carrying
out the general order to press the enemy before him with as much effect as we could reasonably
expect but it was deep in my mind how richly he already deserved this promotion and I was
resolved that he should get it now it was this thought and purpose which no doubt shaped my phrase
and pardoned it Glen sprung among his men calling out boys will you follow me
wield his horse and dashed forward without turning to see who followed nor did he need
his words were a question his act in order
yeah he doesn't say doesn't give nori literally ask the question will you follow me and then
goes leadership by example and whatever kind of relationship and respect he had from his troops
that when they see him go they go his words were a question his act in order
on the brave fellows go with a cheer into the hurricane of fire their beautiful flags
sways gray footh gracefully aloft with the spring of brave youth bearing it lighting the battle smoke
three times it goes down to earth covered in darkening eddies but rises ever again passing
from hand to hand of don'tless young heroes then bullet torn and blood blazing it hovers for a moment
above the breastwork while the regiment goes over like a wave this I saw from my position to the
left where I was pressing on the rest of my command the site brought upon me that I snatched
time to ride over and congratulate Glen and his regiment as I passed into a deeper shadow of the woods
I met two men bearing his body the dripping blood marking their path
they stopped to tell me I saw it all too well he had snatched a battle flag from a broken
regiment trying to rally on its colors when a broop bullet of the earth once pronounced good
but since cursed for man sin struck him down to its level I could not stop I could stop but for a moment
for still on my front was rush and turmoil and tragedy I could only bend down over him from the
saddle and murmur unavailing words general I have carried out your wishes this was his only
utterance it was as if another bullet had cut through me I fell almost across my saddle my wish
God in heaven no more my wish than thine that this fair body still part of the unfallen good
should be smitten to the sod that this spirit born of thine should be quenched by the accursed
what dark miss giving searched me as I took the import of these words what sharp sense of
responsibility for those who have committed to them the issues of life and death why should I have
not let this onset take its general course and mend their natural chances why choose him out
for his death and so take on myself the awful decision into what home irreparable loss and
measureless desolation should cast their unliftered burden the crowding fought choked utterance
I could only bend my face low to his and answer
Colonel I will remember my promise I will remember you and press forward to my place where
the crash and crushing agony of the struggle summoned me more to more of the same war
nothing but the final infinite good for man and God can accept and justify human work like that
yeah that some that massive burden that he feels just absolutely hitting him
yeah again there's not much for me to say on that
and even with that the battle's not over
go forward a little bit and we had now come to the edge of a wide field across the road
and the works on the enemies right known as the Gillum field here I came to share it in
Griffin my troops all up in well in hand a sharp cavalry fight was going on in which some of Erie's
men and my own had taken part when our line was checked at the last angle Griffin had ordered
one of Crawford's kernels to advance the Colonel a brave well-balanced man replied that
where soldiers as good as Griffin's men had failed he did not feel warranted in going in
without proper orders very well I ordered you in says Griffin without adding that he did it as
commander of the corps so there's a Colonel sitting there and there's this battle going on
and Griffin says hey you need to get in there and the Colonel says well hey I don't think I should
go in there if these guys can't get it done I'll pick out school in there unless I'm under orders
and Griffin says very well then I order you in so he gives a little push back hey this doesn't seem
like a great call and then he gets told you're going in the Gallant Colonel Bows he is Richardson
of the seventh Wisconsin grass his regimental colors in his own hand significant of the need of his
resolution in face of it and rides forward in advance of his men what can they do but follow such
example general warrant with intensity of feeling that is now desperation snatches his
core flag from the hands of its bearer and dashes up to Richardson side and so the two leaders
ride the corps commander and his last visible Colonel colors aloft reckless of the growing distance
between them and their followers straight for the smoking line straight for the flaming edge not
hesitating at the breastworks over they go one with swelling tumult of soul where the passion of
suffering craves outburst in action the other with obedience and self devotion love like stronger than death
over the breastworks down among the astonished foe one of whom instinct over mastering
admiration aims at the foremost a deadly blow which the noble youth rushes forward the parry
and shielding with his own breast of his certain of his uncaring commander falls to earth
bathing his colors with his blood need more be told do men tarried such a point
one crested wave sweeps on another broken rolls away all as lost and all as one
slowly worn in returns over the somber field
so that's just an unbelievable scene you know it's just an unbelievable scene if you
tried to make that an a movie it wouldn't seem realistic that this guy Richardson gets told hey
you need to charge he says I don't think I should do that without proper orders his boss says
these are your orders go and as he takes off towards the melee the overall leader
without saying a word just grabs his flag and joins him by his side
once they get to the enemy lines somebody takes aim at Warren and Richardson basically jumps
in front of he says blow I don't know if he's a shot or if it was a sword or what it was but
I'm assuming he was shot and Richardson takes the round I mean they consider like an enemy
breastworks and they're coming over it in their horses and then once they come over they got to
be in and amongst them so it could have been either could have been a sword I guess
they in that yeah
and then this happens as it is forsaken at its forsaken edge a staff officer hands him this is
Warren this is a Warren walks back after this or it's rides back after this and a staff officer
hands him a crude field order partly by the lured fast flashes of Alaska it's partly by the
light of the dying day he reads quote major general Warren commanding the fifth army court is
relieved from duty and will at once report for orders to lieutenant journal general grant
commanding arms the united states by command of major general shared and quote
so he just got fired with almost the agony of death upon his face
Warren approaches shared and and ask him if he cannot reconsider the order reconsider
hell I don't reconsider my decisions obey the order
that was the last thunderbolt on Warren's heart the battle has done its worst for him
the iron has entered his soul
so all that kind of mayhem and disorganization and all those different orders and stuff
cause eventually him to get fired and there's some details in the book about
him moving to slow him not being at the front so fast forward a little bit suddenly emerge from
the shadows a compact form with vigorous stride unlike the measure and mood of ours and a voice
that would itself have thrilled us had it not had not the import of it thrilled us more
gentlemen says shared in as we have started to our feet I've come to see you I may have
spoken harshly to some of you today but I would not have it hurt you you know how it is
we had to carry this place and I was threaded all day till it was done you must forgive me
I know it is hard for the men too but we must push there's more for us to do together I appreciate
and thank you all and this is Phil Sheridan a new view of him surely and amazingly all the
repressed feeling of our hearts sprung out toward him we were ready to blame ourselves if we had been
in any way the cause of his trouble but we thought we had borne a better part than that so this
guy shared in who's been barking orders and stuff all day now rolls in after he fires Warren
and says hey guys look I know it's hard today but I'm sorry I was wrong you know you must forgive
me he's asking for forgiveness and I mean it landed apparently really well you know
you know because reading this it's it's really apparent that Chamberlain is sympathetic to one
and ain't all that thrilled with Sheridan and then you know you see his response there when Sheridan
was smart yeah takes ownership of it and re-regaining some leadership capital because
apologizing requires to do huge checking your ego yeah I can't think of a situation where
anyone loses respect for you when you apologize yeah yeah this is a good case of that
um yeah we just went through that whole thing with uh with Joe Rogan and you know him apologizing
and there was a bunch of people and I I just basically tried to lend support to him and say in that
hey let's the guys apologize forgiveness is a virtue that we should all try and go after and try and
represent and so when somebody makes a mistake you know that's what forgiveness is for and a bunch of
people I don't want you people with some people we're saying you should never apologize no it's never
I hear that two with leaders leader sale it's weak to apologize man if you mess something up
then apologize and hey in a minimum if I say something to you that maybe
maybe I offended you what did I want to offend you and if I didn't maybe if maybe if it's uh
you know I say well geez Jason you know you're you and your stupid freaking blonde hair right
you know and all of a sudden I realized that you know used to get picked on for that
and even though I meant it as a joke but it offended you does that mean well hey I didn't know
I didn't know that you used to get picked on because of that I'm not apologizing no it's actually
hey man I'm sorry the way I said it and the thing that I didn't know was gonna offend you
offended you and I'm sorry about that but there's nothing wrong when you make a mistake of saying sorry
nothing wrong what I really appreciated about
Rogan's apology is that he wasn't sidestepping any consequences yeah well you know just because you say
or sorry doesn't mean there are no consequences well hey it's all good I apologize no but he
he took ownership of what happened he wasn't trying to wheeze aloud of any consequences and I thought
that it was a huge lesson on how what the right thing to do is when something comes out and
I actually gained quite a bit of respect I had a few amount of respect for Joe before that but
but his apology was was heartfelt and sincere and it wasn't an attempt to avoid consequences
yeah which is awesome and when you make a mistake as a leader when you pick the wrong plan
when I say hey Jason I want you to you know can you prep this freaking brief for me and then
it turns out we don't need to do the brief and I'm like hey man I know you worked for two weeks on
that thing and we didn't even need to even do it I'm sorry man as opposed to saying well you know
we could have used it or whatever just making up the big cover up the big lie you know
interesting hey man I'm so sorry I know I wait you wasted two weeks working on that
working on that brief and we ended up not using it I should have done a better I should have done
more groundwork to make sure we're gonna need it and I'm sorry you respect for me doesn't go down
it goes up you know it's like I was wrong and when I when I was when as I'm reading this and I'm
and I I'm like oh god here come Sharon again he's gonna yell at him and then he had like oh look
at him go he's apologizing and then he writes about like hey we were all as soon as he did that he
completely flipped their feelings towards him yep a new view of him surely and amazingly
if that's such a great case for taking ownership and apologizing when you screw something up
he's talking a little bit about about about the the personalities and the attitudes and one
thing he's talking about Sheridan so this is sort of a detached moment he says Sheridan does not
entrench he pushes on carrying his flank and rear with him rushing flashing smashing he
transfuses into his subordinates the vitality and energy of his purpose transforms them into
part of his own mind and will he shows the power of a commander inspiring both confidence and
fear as a rule are core and army commanders were men of brains rather than magnetism they
relied on brains in others war and was one of these he was well capable of organizing an entire plan
of battle on a great field he would have been an admirable chief of staff of the army so he's
good again this is the personality of war and war and was like not a dynamic charismatic individual
he was good at planning they're brains out way temperaments and when you're coming up with a plan
your brains are more important he could see the whole comprehensively and adjusts the parts to subordinate
but he had a certain order of temperament which although it brought him distinction as a subordinate
commander seemed to work against him as a core commander yeah this is man you got it you got a
you got to adjust look what we'll get into it well we'll just do it now you look if you are the
the second in command if you're the chief operating option you got to make things happen
and you're the one that goes hey Jason you need to get the shit done right now and you're like yeah
got it boss and then I elevate to being the CEO I need to change my behavior and I need to be the
be the the the bigger personality the the more positive personality that's what I need to do
the the more charismatic the more dynamic I don't want to be the one in the weeds when I'm over all in
charge now if I have the personality where I'm like hey I'm a great at coming up with the plans
and this is the way we're going to do this that's cool but when I promote above that and now I
got to show the vision you got to you got to adjust and you got to grow and you got to mature
and by the way sometimes you go back down to that position because you could be leading a department
where you got to be kind of charismatic and and then you get promoted to CEO oh now you got to be like
a little bit more of the the planner and a little bit more mechanical and then you get promoted CEO
and now you got to be back to the dynamic individual again so so part of the reason I want to say
that is because yes you have a personality we all have a personality but you don't necessarily
you don't have to behave the same way and like I when I was an unassistant platoon commander
you know I had to subdue some of my enthusiasm about things when I I was more into the
detailed planning hey I got that paperwork let me run that when I was a platoon commander
all of a sudden I stepped up into the more dynamic role got out of the details
and that's what you're going to have to do throughout your career and you have to pay attention
to what your personality sort of lends itself to there was guys that I work for that were
executive officers the number two in command at a sealed team and they were great executive
officers as commanding officers maybe not so great there was people that were great commanding
officers as executive officers maybe not so great they just have a personality but at least you
should you should know where your parent personality is and then modulate your personality
to the job that you're in yeah and the only way you're going to do that is to attach
yeah no that's the only way otherwise you just swept away by your personality yeah and I
so that you know in the Navy every two years you're promoting right about the time you figure
out how to do that job you get up to the next job and then you're doing the next job like that last
job for a little while until you figure things out hopefully you figured out I didn't it didn't
just work out for Warren there's there's a whole bunch of circumstances work things didn't work out
for Warren and maybe another subsets is what had been fine but it didn't sound like he was
the dynamic leader and that's that is a hard thing to do because you're going to start out doing
what you know and unless you're willing to take feedback and so you know the 360 feedback is something
that we started doing in the teams and so you get feedback from your subordinates and not painful
to hear if you look at that stuff sometimes you're like oh but it's so liberating because you're like oh
okay and you can tell when you read the feedback on who's and kiss an ass and who's just angry
about everything and they're just going to be anger about it and who's giving you on a speedback
it's like oh I got to stop doing that or just that or I'm stepping on that guy's toes
and pull it back. Still still here talking about Warren he said it led him to go in
personally with a single division or brigade when a sharp fight came on doing this when he
went having a larger command one takes a risk of losing grasp of the whole so he's going into
that like hey I'm used to doing this job down in the weeds I'm going to get down the weeds
that was what he did trying to change the front with Crawford's division under fire it was a
difficult thing he put his personality into it which is what you just said Jason just as shared
and would do and did in this very fight there's a whole section that covers some of that criticism
about Warren and his subordinates and and Chamberlain goes on to say these accusations against
the conduct of each of Warren's divisions while susceptible of being magnified and manipulated
so as to produce a certain forensic effect are of no substantial weight even if true in the sharpest
sense so even if Warren's subordinates were totally jacked up look he's saying look you can create
you can look in the back and say like oh these guys were bad this guy did this wrong this guy
did that wrong you can produce a certain forensic effect but even if that's true in the sharpest
sense they would be overstrained and uncalled for considering how the battle ended and by whom
it was mainly fought in a military and highly proper sense general Warren was responsible for the
conduct of his core and ultimately for that of each of his divisions there you have it you got
people that work for you you got departments under you got divisions underneath you got platoons
or battalions or companies underneath you you are responsible for what all those people do
there are two ways in which such control might be exercised by prevention or by correction
so i'm either going to say jayson you know what you're not doing this job well you're not doing
this job you're fired or hey jayson you're not doing this job well here's the corrections you need to make
that's what you do for hey jayson i know that you're going to set everything on fire
don't set everything on fire which is correction right which is preventive i guess that's prevention
yes that's prevention prevention um it was Crawford's duty to keep his vital connection with
airies and if in any way should be broken to be on the alert to see an act Warren should hold him
risk should hold him responsible for that and if he knew he could not at the start rouse crow
Crawford who's peculiarities he knew to a vivid conception of the anatomy and physiology of the
case he should have had a staff officer charged with the duty of keeping Crawford closed on airies
while he himself at the point where he could keep in touch with his whole core and hold Griffin
under his hand at the ready and trusted reserve prepared for the unexpected so he's saying the
same thing you and i just said like if if ek if ek was a little bit of a wild man and a not
quite sure he's going to do cool i take jayson my trusted guy and say hey man go with ekko let me
know what he's doing he gets a little wild sometimes you and Dave called that preemptive ownership preemptive
ownership good deal if there you go cover down
i get a think of the slack and now we get to apomotics apomatics fast forward a little bit
i'm about to speak of what came under my observation in the action to apomotic apomatics
courthouse and the circumstances attending the surrender of the army of northern Virginia April
9th 1865 so now there are 20 25 miles or so from five forks the battle that they were just in
this is a week later eight days later something like that they had to march that that time
he says the fifth court had a very hard march that day made more so in the afternoon and night
by the lumbering obstructions of the rear of ords tired column by courtesy given the road before us
the incestant checkfreading our men almost to mutiny we had been rushed all day to keep up with
the cavalry but this constant checking was worse we did not know that grant had set orders to the
fifth court of march all night without halting but it was not necessary for us to know it after
29 miles of this kind of marching at the blackest hour of night human nature had called a halt
dropping by the roadside left and right wet or dry down went men as in a soon swoon
officers slid out of the saddle loosened the girth slipped an arm through the loop of a bridal rain
and sunk to sleep horses stood with drooping heads just above their master's faces all dreaming
one nose not of what of past or coming possible or faded
scarcely as the first broken dream begun when a cavalry man comes splashing down the road and
vigorously dismounts pulling from his jacket crumpled note the sentinel standing watch by his
commander worn in body but alerted every sense touches your shoulder or to sir I think you rise on
your elbow strike a match and with smarting streaming eyes read the brief thrilling note from
Sheridan like this as I remember quote I have cut across the enemy at apomotics apomatics station
and captured three of his trains if you can possibly push your infantry up here tonight we will have
great results in the morning end quote ah no more sleep the startling bugle notes the ring out
to the march word is sent for the men to take a bite of such as they had for food the promised
rations would not be up till noon and by that time we should be where they don't even know
they are there men shivering to their senses as if written out of rizn out of the earth
but something in them not of it now sounds the forward for the last time in our long drawn
strife and they move these men sleepless, subtrolous, breakfastless, sore-footed stiff-dueened
sense-be-numbed but with flushed faces pressing for the front some hard men freaking hard
they march eventually they arrive on station I ride straight to Sheridan a dark smile and impetus
gesture are my only orders forward into double lines of battle past Sheridan his guns as cavalry
and on for the quivering crest for a moment it is a glorious sight every arm of the service in full play
cavalry artillery infantry then a sudden shift shifting scene as the cavalry disengaged by
successive squadrons rally under their bugle calls with beautiful precision and prompt the two
and sweep like a storm cloud beyond our right to close in on the enemy's left and complete the
faithful envelopment we take up battle, Gregory follows in on my left it is a formidable
way front we make the scene darkens in a few minutes the tide is turned the incoming wave is at high
flood the barrier recedes in truth the stone wall men hardly show their well-proved metal
they seem astonished to see before them familiar flags of their old antagonist not having thought
it possible that we could match our cavalry and march around and across their pressing columns
and I don't think I did a good job of laying out the way that went but these soldiers had
marched to keep up with the cavalry and it got in there in 29 miles in a very short period of time
their last hope is gone to break through our cavalry before our infantry can get up
neither to Danville nor to Lynchburg can they cut their way and close upon their rear five miles
away are pressing the second and sixth core of the army of the Potomac it is the end they are now
giving way but keep up good front by force of old habit halfway up the slope they make a stand
with what perhaps they think a good omen behind a stone wall I try a little artillery on them
which directs their thoughts towards the crest behind them and stiffens my lines for a rush
anxious for that crust myself crest myself but now comes up ord with a positive order don't
expose your lines on that crest the enemy of mass their guns to hat to give it a raking fire the
moment you set foot there I thought I saw a qualifying look as he turned away but left alone
youth struggled with prudence my troops were in a bad position down here I did not like to be
the the underdog it was much better to be on top and at least know what was there beyond
so I thought of grant and his permission to quote push things when we got them going and
of shared and in his last words as he wrote away with his cavalry smiting his hands together quote
now smash him I tell you smash him and quote so we took this for orders and on the crest we stood
one booming cannon shot past close along our front and in the next moment all was still so
he gets told don't go up to that crest but he's in a bad situation anyways and he thinks
hey I'm this isn't good what are some other orders I've received recently well I've also got told to
push things I've also got told to smash him so I'm going to take some initiative here and we're
going I'm going to get to that crest and when he gets up there turns out there's just one cannon shot
we had done it had exposed ourselves to the view of the enemy but it was an exposure that worked
two ways for their burst upon our vision of mighty scene fitcanes the story of tumultuous years
encompassed by the cordon of steel that crown the heights about the courthouse on the slopes of the
valley formed by the sources of the apomotics lay the remnants of that far-famed army counterpart
and companion of our own in momentous history the army of northern Virginia. Lease army
and so now he's standing up in this position looking down and can see the entire scene from his
elevated position and including the apomotics apomatics sorry around and here's what he describes
around its edges now trodden to myor swarms and indescribable crowd worn out soldier struggling
to the front demoralized citizen and denizen white black and all shades between following
Lease army or flying before these suddenly confronted terrible Yankees pictured to them as demon shape
and bent animals too of all forms and grades vehicles of every description and non-description
public and domestic four-wheeled or two or one heading and moving in every direction
asswarning massive chaotic confusion. So with a fervor of devout joy as when perhaps the old
crusaders first caught sight of the holy city of their quest with an uproaring of heart that was
half pagan half prayer we dash forward to the consummation a solitary field piece in the edge of
town gives an angry but expiring defiance we press down the little slope through a little swamp
over a bright swift stream our advances already in the town only the narrow street between
the posing lines and hardly that there is wild work that looks frightening but not much killing
nor even hurting the disheartened enemy take it easy our men take them easier
it is a wild mild fusing earnest but not deadly earnest a young orderly of mine unable to
contain himself begs permission to go forward and dashes in sword flourishing as if he was a
terrible fellow his demonstrations seemingly more amusing than resisted for he soon comes back
hugging four sabers to his breast speechless at his achievement new guy going in so you can see the
looking fetter army is kind of fallen apart and these guys are charging in expecting a fight and
there's just not that much of a fight and then this suddenly rose to our sight another form
closer on front a soldierly young figure handsomely dressed and mounted a confederate staff officer
undoubtedly to whom some of my advanced lines seem to be pointing my position now I see the white
flag earnestly born and it's possible purport sweeps before my inner vision like a rave of
morning mist he comes steadily on the mysterious forming gray my mood so whimsical sensitive
that I could even smile at the material of the flag wondering where in either army was found a
towel and one so white but it bore a mighty message that simple emblem of homely service
wafted hitherward above the dark and crimson streams that never can wash themselves away
the messenger draws near dismounts with graceful salutation and hardly suppressed emotion
delivers his message sir I am from general Gordon general lead desires a cessation of hostilities
until he can hear from general grant as to the proposal of surrender what word is this so long
so dearly fought for so feverously dreamed but never but ever snatched away held hidden and eloof
now smiting the senses with dizzy flash surrender we had no rumor of this from the long
messages that had been passing between grant lee for now these two days between behind us surrender
it takes a moment to gather one speech sir I answer that matter exceeds my authority
I will send to my superior general lead is right he can do no more
all this with a forced calmness covering a tumult of heart and brain
I bid him wait a while and the message goes up to my core commander general griffin leaving me
mazed at the boating change
even here he's trying to remain calm like purposely forced calmness
now from the right come foaming up in cavalry fashion two forms I had watched from a way beyond a white
flag again held strong a loft making straight for the little group beneath our battle flag
highborne also the red multi's cross on a white field that had thrilled hearts long ago
I see now that is one of our cavalry staff in the lead indeed I recognize him
chrono wittaker of custer staff and hardly keeping pace with him a Confederate staff officer
without dismounting without salutation the cavalry man shouts this is unconditional surrender
this is the end then he hastily introduces his companion and adds
I am just from Gordon and Long Street Gordon says for God's sake stop this infantry or
hell will be to pay I'll go to Sheridan he adds and dashes away with a white flag leaving
Long Street's aid with me the captain's cry hold the rebels want to surrender
the more men want to be there and see it still to the front where the real fun is
and the forward takes an upward turn for when we do succeed in stopping their advance we cannot keep
their arms and legs from flying to the top of fences and haystacks and chimneys they clamber
to toss their old caps higher in the air and leave the earth as far below as they can
deroll general Gregory Gallops up to inquire the meaning of this strange departure from a
custom discipline only that lee wants time to surrender I answer glory to God
roars the grave and brave old general your legs have done it my men he shouts
galloping up cap in hand generously for giving our disobedience of orders and rash exposure on the
dubious crest true enough their legs had done it had matched the cavalry as granted mid-it
had caught around lee's best doings and commanded the grand halt but other things had done it
the blood was still fresh upon the quaker road the white oak ridge five forks farmville high
bridge and sailors creek and we take somewhat gravely this compliment of our new commander
of the army of the james at last after pardoning something to the spirit of liberty we get things
quiet along the lines one the clock comes no answer from lee nothing for us but to shake hands and
take arms to resume hostilities as I turned to go general Griffin said to me in a low voice
prepared a make or receive an attack in ten minutes it was a sudden change in tone of
our relations and brought a queer sensation where my troops had halted the opposing lines
were in close proximity the men stacked arms the men had stacked arms and were resting in place
it did not seem like war we were going to recommends but willful murder
but the order was only to prepare and that we did our troop foreign good position my
advance line across the road and we stood fast and tensly waiting I had mounted and sat looking
at the scene before me thinking of all that was impending and depending when I felt it
coming upon a strange sense of some presence invisible but powerful like those unirfully
visits told of an ancient story charged with supernatural message disquieted I turned about
and there behind me riding in between my two lines appeared a commanding form
superbly mounted richly accrued accrued of imposing bearing noble countenance with expression of
deep sadness over mastered by deeper strength it is no other than Robert e.lee and seen by me
for the first time within my own lines I sat immovable with a certain awe and admiration
he was coming with a single staff officer for the great appointed meeting which was to determine
momentous issues not long after by another in leading road appeared another form plain
unassuming simple and familiar to our eyes but but to the thought as much inspiring as Lee in his
splendor and his sadness it is grant he too comes with a single aid a staff officer of shared in
slouched hat without cord common soldier blouse unbuttoned on which however the four stars
high boots mud splashed to the top trousers tucked inside no sword but the sword hand deep in the
pocket sitting his saddle with the ease of a born master taking no notice of anything at all all
his faculties gathered into intense thought and mighty calm he seemed greater than I'd ever seen him
a look of another world about him no wonder I forgot altogether to salute him anything like that
would have been to live a little staff officers are flying crying Lee surrenders
although with some kind of strength left among those worn and famished men
building the hills around the springs of apomattox who rent the air with shouting in uproar as
if the earth and see a join the song are men did what they thought their share and then went to sleep
as they had not as they had need to do but in the opposite camp they acted as if they got of
hold of something too good to keep and gave it to the stars besides they had supper that night
which was something of a novelty for we had divided rations with our old antagonist now they were
by our side as suffering brothers so they're well in truth long street had come over to our camp
that evening with an unwampton moisture on his martial cheek and compressed words on his lips
gentlemen I must speak plainly we are starving over there for god's sake can you send us something
we were men and we acted like men knowing we should suffer it for ourselves we were too short
rationed also and had been for days but must be for days to come
we sent over to that starving camp share and share alike for all their with ourselves
again that's like amazing to the sort of mutual respect almost instantly to try and help out these
your enemy how about long streets coming over by you're not sending a staff officer or anybody else
he's going to say hey bring my guy some food so there's some forgiveness this was also
interesting late that night I was summoned to headquarters where general Griffin informed me
that I was to command the parade on the occasion of the formal surrender of the arms and colors of
Lee's army he said the Confederates had begged hard to be allowed to stack their arms on the ground
where they were and let us go pick them up after they had gone so that was their plan the
Confederates said hey let us just leave our weapons and we're gonna bail but granted not think this
quite respectful enough to anybody including the United States of America and while he would have
all private property respected and would permit officers to retain their side arms he insisted
that surrender that the surrendering army as such should march out in due order and lay down
all tokens of Confederate authority and organized hostility to the United States in an immediate
presence of some representative portion of the Union army Griffin added in a significant tone
that grant wish to the ceremony to be as simple as possible and that nothing should be done to
humiliate the manhood of the Southern soldiers so there's like a little balance there okay we'll
share some food with you but you got to come and you got to come and surrender proper
it was now the morning of the 12th of April I had been ordered to have my lines formed for the
ceremony at sunrise it was at chill gray morning depressing to the senses we formed along the principal
street we were the remnants also Massachusetts main Maryland Michigan Pennsylvania New York
Veterans and Replace Veterans cut to pieces cut down consolidated divisions into brigades
regiments into one gather by state origin back to their place of birth this little line
quintit quintessence a metasite coasts of porters old core of gains mill of maveran hill
man of near blood borne made near by blood shed those facing us now thank God the same
our earnest eyes can scan the busy groups on the opposite slopes breaking camp for the last time
taking down the little shelter tents and folding them carefully as precious things then
slowly forming ranks as for unwelcome duty and now they move the dusky storms forge forward into
gray columns of march on they come with the old swinging root step and swaying battle flags
instructions had been given and when the head of each division column comes opposite our camp
our bugle sounds the signal and instantly our whole line from right to left regiment by regiment in
succession gives the soldiers' sallutation from the order arms to the old carry the marching salute
Gordon at the head of the column writing with heavy spirit and downcast face catches the sound of
shifting arms looks up and taking the meaning wheels superbly making himself in his horse one
uplifted figure with the proud profound sallutation as he drops the point of his sword to the boot toe
then facing to his own command gives word for successive brigades to pass us with the same position
of manual honor answering for honor our part on our part not a sound of trumpet
nor role of drum not a cheer nor word of whisper of vain gloring nor motion of a man standing
again at the order but an odd stillness rather and breath holding as if it were the passing of the dead
they fix bayonets stack arms then hesitantly remove cartridge boxes and lay them down
lastly reluctantly with agony of expression they tenderly fold their flags battle worn in
torn blood stained heart-holding colors and lay them down some friends at the rushing from the
ranks kneeling over them clinging to them pressing them to their lips with burning tears
and only the flag of the union greets the sky
what visions thronged as we looked into each other's eyes here past the man of antitum the bloody
lane the sunken road the cornfield the burn-side bridge the men whom stone wall Jackson on the second
night at Frederick's bird banged lee to let him take and crush the two core of the army of the
petomic huddled in the streets in the darkness and confusion the men who swept the eleventh core
at chancellorville who left 6,000 of their companions around the bases of colps and cemetery hills
at getty's burg these survivors of the terrible wilderness the bloody angle at spotsylvania
the slaughter pen of cold harbor the whirlpool of Bethesda church here comes cobs George
Elegion which held the stone wall on Mary's heights at Frederick'sburg close before which we
piled our dead for breastwork so that the living might stay alive here to come Gordon's Georgians
and hoax north Carolinians who stood before the terrific mine explosion at Peter'sburg
and advancing retook the smoking crater and the dismal heaps of dead ours more than theirs
huddled in the ghastly chasm here are the men of megalons honten and scales who broke the fifth
core lines on the white oak road and were so desperately driven back on that four-learn night
of march the 31st by thrice decimated brigade now comes Anderson's fourth core
only bush rod and bush rod that johnson's division left and this the remnant of those we
fought so fiercely on quaker road two weeks ago with wise his legion two fears for its own good
here passes the proud remnant of rambson's north ransom's north Carolinians
who were swept through five forks ten days ago and all the little that was left of this division
in the sharp passages at sailors creek five days thereafter now makes its last front
ap hills old core half now at the leads until had gone too far forward ever to return
the men who poured destruction into our division at shepherd's town forward and tedom in 62
when hill reported the atomic the patemic running blue with our bodies the men who opened the
desperate first days fight at getty'sburg wherewithstanding them so stubbornly our
Robinson's brigade lost one thousand one hundred eighty five men and the iron brigade alone
one thousand one hundred and fifty three these men of half division here two losing two thousand
eight hundred and fifty men companions of these now looking into our faces so differently
now the sad great pageant long street in his men what shall we give them for greeting that has not
already been spoken in valleys of thunder and written in lines of fire all over the banks of Virginia
shall we go back to gains mill or maveran hill or to antitum of Maryland or get his
berg of Pennsylvania deepest grave and a wall for here is what remains of kursha's division
which left forty percent of its men at antitum and at getty'sberg with barksdale and stems
brigade tore through the peach orchard rolling up our rolling up the right of our gallant third
core sweeping over the proud batteries of mass attuces big allow and philips we are under the smoke
we saw earth brown and blue with prostrated bodies of men and horses and the tongues of overturned
cannon pointing grim and stark in the air then in the wilderness and at spots of
vignor kursha again in deeds of awful glory and thereafter for all their losses holding their name
and fame until fate met them at sailors creek where all but these with kursha himself and
it will you and so many more gave up their arms and hopes all indeed but manhood's honor
with what strange emotion I looked into these faces before which in the mad assault river
on reefs say we at June 1864 I was left for dead under their eyes
it is by miracles we have lived to see this day any of us standing here
now comes the sinew we remnant of fierce hoods division which at getty'sberg we saw pouring
through the devil's den and plumb run gorge turning again by the left our stubborn third core
then swarming up the rocky bastions of roundtop to be met there by equal valor which changed
leaves whole plan of battle and perhaps the story of getty'sberg is this picket's division
this little group left of those who on the lured last day of getty'sberg
rested level crossfire and thunder bolts of storm to be strewn back drifting wrecks
where after that awful futile pitiful charge we buried them in graves of furlong wide with names unknown
man again in the terrible cyclone sweep over the breastworks at five forks met now so thin
so pale purged of the mortal as if knowing pain or joy no more how could we help falling on our
knees all of us together and praying God to pity and forgive us all
you know i don't know if you can capture the emotions that these guys must have felt on both sides
at this juncture but i must be a pretty close proximity to at least the best you could do to capture
those emotions and there's another the book goes on and there's a powerful section where
he because that that section there you know he kind of calls out name by name with the various
units and there's a section where there's a parade for the army of the platomic and it's incredible
pop incredibly powerful as well and he goes by unit by unit um there's one point where he brings up
the fact that while Warren was Warren there was a there was basically a trial because Warren said
hey I shouldn't have been fired he wanted to kind of redeem himself and there's he brings up a
point where someone was asking one of the one of the cross-examining lawyers asked Warren hey
when you're in this battle where where were your regulars and Warren looks at him with a bold and
quivering lip and says buried sir agettiesburg and yeah that's it's it's hard to do this book
justice without just reading the entire thing and there's just stories upon stories in in this book
and lessons so many lessons that we we barely touched into like I said before if you get a
chance to go to get his bird go there go there we go there if you want to come there with us go check that out
but there's a one more section that I wanted to cover in the book
Joshua Chamberlain is he's he's with some of his surviving troops in Maine and there've been
some kind of scrambling of of the organization the 20th May to become combined with the 16th
and the second and the wars finished and I tried to figure out how long after the war this was
so I could not I couldn't quite identify when exactly this was but they're at a banquet and
Chamberlain you know this whole both these podcasts we were talking about the flags and the meaning
of this colors right what they meant what they represented and during the defense of little
roundtop at some point they had lost their colors at some point you know during this freaking
mayhem they lost their colors and it you know this is a symbolic event like I said like he was
saying it's a tactical event there there's actually a tactical reason for those colors but it's also
symbolic as well and at some point these during the battle of Gettysburg and I'm not exactly sure
when it was I don't even know if it's during roundtop that defense but at some point the soldiers from
main the colors were lost for a little while and Chamberlain wants to address that directly
to the surviving troops in this in this speech and I just want to read one section of it
he says your colors it was said were lost that word came to me when on the morning of the second
I reached the crest far to the rear of that where you had stood and I felt the shock but not of shame
for I knew something terrible must have befallen and that there could have been no dishonor where you were
but when I came to know the truth of it all I saw that instead of your colors being lost they were
eternally saved not laid down but lifted up not captured nor surrendered but translated the shadow
lost in substance the flag it is the symbol of the country's honor power law and life
it is the instant of loyalty the bond of brotherhood for those who stand under it a token and an inspiration
hence it is held sacred by the soldier as in great moments it is also by the citizen
all which that flag symbolized you had illustrated and impersonated had absorbed into your thoughts and
hearts if I should not rather say itself had absorbed your thoughts and hearts your service and suffering
into its own deeper meaning and dear honor now it had done all a simple could do you had stood for it all
now the supreme moment had come nothing could be averted nothing could be resisted nothing could be
escaped that was an awful moment passing that of death it seems to me then a new soul is born
no thought of yielding up the token of the country's honor enters the heart of any one of you
though it has fulfilled its ends though you are to go to prison and death your kernel
common don'tless commander still bids you break the staff that had borne it aloft and tear that
symbol single as your souls into many pieces as you had bosoms and shelter them with your lives
less that flag be touched by hostile hand or triumphed over living man lost there is a way of
losing that is finding when soul over master's sense when the noble and divine self
over comes the lower self when duty and honor and love immortal things bid the mortal perish
it is only when a man supremely gives that he supremely finds that was your sacrifice
that is your reward
when we talked about the surrender it was him describing it and you know later parts of the books
you find out that that salute that they gave to the Confederates they weren't ordered to do that
he just straight up did that out of shivalry and then as the Confederates are coming past
and they think that they're like oh man you know their heads are down and they see that you know
they think the union armies are making fun of them or laughing at them or scoffing at them
and they receive that salute and they give the salute back to it's just incredible incredible
description yeah yeah it's um I don't know what else I can do do the audio book I think at some
point this freaking sit here and read this whole thing you're best main accent yeah my best main accent
I'll also work I apologize that sometimes I pronounce words wrong and I'm sorry
I'm just kind of reading it and I don't feel like doing nine takes to say words that I can't say
very well so I apologize about that that I don't do that justice but so many lessons in this book
just about how to be a good human being and I still I know we just did two podcasts on them on it
but it's there's so much in there this guy is such an incredible example the way he lived
the things he did his attitude and really you know some some people talk about the divisiveness
you know in America right now and you know you hear people say oh it's never been this bad
before well you know what it has it's been freaking infinitely worse infinitely worse
and the fact that you could go through a divisiveness so incredibly
incredibly violent I mean this is our war we just just it was a slaughter
just think about that last podcast the things that the description he's giving on those battlefields
but if we as a nation can go through that that insane violence and at the end of that
at the end of that at the end of killing each other whole sale slaughtering each other at the end of that
the very men that that fought each other that killed each other those very men
can stand and salute each other and respect each other and decide that we should stay a union
if we as a country can get through that then I only can hope that we can move past
some of the bickering that we have today and hold up this flag and unify all of us together
to continue to provide a place in the world
with freedom
for all
so thanks for listening
thanks for your support in what we're doing
like I said if you want to calm out you want to hang out with myself and Jason and the rest of the
Esslorn front team you want to walk these battlefields you want to feel some freaking
emotions you want to have a spiritual experience come and check out these events that we do
we got in May 11th and 12th and May 13th and 14th the Gettysburg and we're going also to
little big horn in August 16th 17th and then another session 18th and 19th come and check it out
if you can't go with us give read these books think about what these people went through
think about what they overcame it's um it's history and we should never forget we should never
forget this this history that we have in this country and what we've been through we've been through a
ton we can't forget that should keep us together what else echo Charles
greedy to be because the old school big confessions are you actually the small thing I thought
it's not not quite as serious but I will say this so you know it's what is it about
when you have like enemies or even people who just don't like each other and they're in the
one the any form of like enemy and then they go through like all this like ups and downs and they fight
each other and and then at the end like they become friends or whatever maybe reconcile and they
become friends but what is it about that that makes everyone feel so good afterwards
I would say part of it is the shared struggle right we've been through some shit I've been through
some shit okay like there's a shared struggle even if we're not opposing it I mean you think of a
football game right you play a good game against someone and it's a scrap and you're throwing down
that's muddy and it's close like when you say good game to that person you mean it right you mean it
so I think that shared struggle and then you know like part of it it's got to be like thank God this
is over you know I got that feeling from the southern soldiers that they were like thank God this is
over like I'm done and I mean there's an opportunity for redemption right when when you're fighting
someone in their enemy and then at the end of it we're like hey we're not enemies anymore
there's the redemption there's an end to it because if we keep holding that animosity it never ends
and there's no there's no healing there's nothing else like that and so like you know you didn't
cover it but like there's what you did where they're sharing their meals but they were they were
trading stuff for like there was like an intermingling there for a couple hours where they were trading
souvenirs with one another and that's incredible when you're talking about men that and a couple
hours before that had walked all freaking night and part of the day to kill one another and now they're
just like yeah over done yeah and by the way they just killed each other a week before that and a month
before that and six months before that you know this is just a bloody bloody awful awful war
it's so it's like the Christmas story in World War One yeah it's an indicator that we're not
bad yeah it's one of those things where these these these you know great things happens in
indicates that we're just we're not I sure we're flawed as human beings but we're not flawed beyond
redemption and I think the the thing that I get out of like the Christmas truths and this ceremony
here at the end is it's just that not there not even I don't I don't know for not bad or not
I definitely indicates that we're not right it indicates but also it indicates to me that
we all have way more in common than we have not in common and like when you get to the point
at the end of the day Jason Gardner has to eat has to shit has to make money has to feed his
family has to help out with you know what you're doing in the world and I'm over here I have to eat
I have to shit I have to take care of my family and I want my kids to have a good life and you
want your kids to have a good life and I don't want you know I want to have some kind of
stability in my life and you want to have some kind of stability in your life and so we we have so much
in common and we let things that are sort of oftentimes if you put them in a bigger picture totally
irrelevant I mean that's what was shocking about the brits and the Germans having a freak
up playing soccer is like those guys didn't give a shit what was going on with some freaking king somewhere
they didn't care what I why do I care about this land over here in France I live in Germany bro
you live in England like I don't care the French people live here let them live here what are we doing
so we get wrapped around some dumb shit and you know in this case it's definitely a very
distinct reason for fighting and the union had to go through this turmoil to read itself of
slavery had to go through it there was no other way it wasn't gonna it wasn't gonna go easy you had to do
this kind of massive war to get to get through that but we did and now we can go get stuff from
origin us a calm yeah you're supposed to come in and like help I'm supposed to say some shit like
got to like make me calm power over here as a rough transition but I think it is like it's like
like after you fight for so long it's almost like you lose you almost forget kind of like these
men like minimal things that or evidently minimal things that you're quote unquote fighting
for and you start remembering all the commonality stuff and then you start to get kind of exhausted
in a way where you're like just like I said like what are we doing like you kind of forget
what you're fighting for you just so habitually caught up in the fight and then finally when you
it's almost like you kind of snap to and be like wait a second like we're fighting over something
super small but meanwhile we have all these commonalities that are so big and then it's like a fight
it's like a relief you know and I think even when you engage in a battle what do you call it
went to other people battle and you're just witnessing it and you see them battling your taking
this guy side did you take in this guy side or whatever and then they finally make up you kind of feel
good too for some reason like you're ever seen like a rivalry and between some people it like feels kind
of good yeah yeah I sometimes I've got to ask a couple times like do I what I want to go back
to Iraq and like and I not there yet at all I'm not like hey you're gonna check it out check
the battlefield and the Ramadi look it go look at Baghdad look I'm not there I don't have any desire
to do that I don't know if I'll get there Ramadi says like rubble anyway they're not rebuilding
it at all but I think when liberating it from ISIS didn't yeah I saw those videos it was freaking
rubble house by house like oh there might be bad guys never new kit yeah yeah
I don't know you when you had a holly macke on and she talked about afghanistan falling
and then you know the story about the two the Taliban guys who slept outside of her hotel room
because they were they wanted to protect her so even there are enemy and and and you can see
your enemies acting was with honor and I think that was definitely honor because I didn't think
that was gonna work out that well for when I heard that story I'm like how did you even make
it back I know and then when she was over there was like hmm might be a good time to leave might be good
like you're not gonna be able to leave now you know you know you should probably leave you should
probably leave oh you're not gonna be able to get out there and she got out of there for she's a brave woman
I asked her like do you think you maybe you're a little bit of a heapsy like yeah maybe you know
I wouldn't be rolling around in there maybe I'm too paranoid maybe I'm too risk of verse
wait you just see one to many videos yeah yeah I'm still you know they weren't supposed to be
in just like uh god um all right what else echo speaking of videos or genus a you got some cool videos
there you two true if you're interested you can see how all the American made stuff is made
including jockel few by the way yep and guess what we at origin main have unified
the north and the south we have uh we have factories up in Maine we have factories in North Carolina
yes we're all the same team the American team the healing is continues the healing continues
I haven't been down to the north Carolina factory I'm looking forward to getting down there and meeting
everyone I got some roots in North Carolina and you know like I obviously have the root the new
England roots the wingland uh who's your roots uh just on the uh on my mom's side yeah I was born there
I got some roots in South Carolina you do you do yeah beautiful skate true story yeah you you you're
you're a straight up uh uh descendant of slaves correct from South Carolina yeah that uh
at the end of the civil war about 10% of the union army was
former slaves that had escaped to the north and if you think about that number 10% of the union
army that means basically every able bodied former slave man straight up just went and fought
free human legit that's free human legit um yeah speaking of legit look okay we'll talk about some
energy drinks legitimate not illegitimate because that's a stigma that energy drinks you
staff don't have that anymore talk go go healthy energy drink Jason you know about this I heard
you hear me um also a lot of other good supplements uh again while American made stuff yeah
good stuff let's go to jockelfuel dot com got some taste good protein got some uh joint health stuff
I'm I'm and you kind of need a bulk right out to be honest yeah well you get you get
top you get I don't know what the word is because last time we talked about jjitsu post jjitsu fatigue
sets in right hour and a half after jjitsu tired you leave jjitsu wired kind of like
amped high up but time you get home if you get home and then you eat you're going into some
series like sleep well same thing with a podcast like I get done with a podcast I'm super freaking
hype for like an hour and a half oh yeah maybe two hours and then all of us know it's not an
it's not two hours I got like an hour and a half of energy I'll usually try and go home and start
prepping my next podcast because I know I have energy that I need to do something with but then
it's mentally taxing to think and read and react and you're so like deep into it
and you're getting emotional I'm freaking get emotional reading and freaking book today right like
that's all happening what does that mean is if I'm getting emotional reading a book
is that taking the same emotional toll or having the same emotional impact as it is if I
watch a movie is it the same as if it if I have like something happened in my life what's the
difference probably the movie is probably similar not in life because life kind of like the
emotional part of life kind of continues right because your life is actually kind of okay the movie
ends and you're like cool story book I mean even though this one's true it's like okay that story is
kind of done so yeah but like there's an emotion of pride that I feel when I hear these stories that
again when I when I see my kid like doing something or something or something then I'm proud for them
it's kind of it's almost the same experience but it is the shorter burn for sure yeah first well
they you know this it's like this is always gonna be the case this happened no matter what happens
from not you know kind of thing but when you read the book it kind of calls your attention to it you
know and that's what's gonna invoke easy motion same thing with the movie but when I read this book or
books like this I'm having the emotions that I'm feeling are probably one third the motion from
the book and two third emotion of my own memories yeah and that's all movies are too right like
the like I get them like I think about these situations that unfolded and I'm thinking about
situations that unfolded for me obviously not to the degree of but
you know like you can't help thinking about that stuff and so even though it it it comes quick
and then you can close the book and it's over but you still were in there yeah so I'll be
freaking sleep like a baby tonight after your milkshake yeah after half the time that's what I was saying
because the milkshake also just stimulates like a form of the pleasure centers and of
of of of of safety and of comfort yeah you know you have a mole you're kind of like
bro it's all good you know the world's good it kind of kind of takes you to a psychological
area where things are good like there's no you're not storming up a blood soaked
hill and drinking a mole those are the opposite of the spectrum so I'll go have a mole
because like a wait a wind down a little bit enter the zone the mole zone so there you go
check it out jugglefuel.com or gnusa.com jugglestore we sell shirts at jugglestore
shirts hats it he's merch if you will what's up with the graze against the machine shirt
that you're wearing is it like a group is it just a man it's a it's a buddy of mine that's
into regenerative ag well sweet had the shirt made up graze against the machine what if
people want to order one wants to guy the one if they make them anymore just got it yeah
I will figure out how to post something in the notes yeah we can throw them if we want to make them
if you want to make them whatever subscribe to the park a juggle underground.com once again I don't
know what's getting I don't know who's getting shut down for what I don't know what there's
some crazy stuff going on in Canada right now people are getting shut down they're getting their
finances halted that's what's happening right now this isn't like me talking about some
dystopian future where things have gone awry no like what's happening again the dot they're
doing that without court order yeah other scary stuff so that's kind of crazy yes I don't know
what's going to happen here but if it happens we're going to be on the underground if you want to
help us out there a juggle underground.com go subscribe because eight dollars and eighteen cents a
month if you can't afford that we're not casting you out of the zone of freedom you just have to
email assistance at juggle underground.com YouTube channel check that out psychological or for
flip side canvas decode a mire making cool stuff to hang on you all I've written a bunch of books
about leadership you can also get ban at forward if you want to get these books you can go to
jugglepodcast.com and go to books on the podcast looks from that pursuit and they're all there
they're kind of a list in order of the books I recommend you read now wood all things being
if I was to restack that book that that thing would they be adjusted a little bit there'd be
some adjustments this book would be further up there I was never a huge civil war guy until
probably like five years ago I don't know it seemed like it was too far ago whatever no no like don't
gave me wrong it's not like I wasn't interested in civil war at all but I wasn't going I didn't
start going deep not like you know for me was always kind of number one nom closest memory number
two world war two number three Korea because we didn't hear as much about that as we needed to
so civil war there has been people ask me about the civil I've got a stack of books stack of books
ready for the podcast that I this is the one we're starting with I guess yeah so you can get all that
stuff at jugglepodcast.com we have a leadership consultancy if you want to check that out we talk
about leadership not just in a war in fact very little in war now it's about business so go to
echelonfront.com for that we have an online training academy go to extremownership.com
if you have a question about any of this and you want to ask Jason Gardner or you want to ask me
or you want to ask life or any of us JP to know you want to ask him something go to
extremownership.com and you can go into one of our zoom sessions you can just ask away
you can ask 19 questions if you want to yeah and then there's a bunch of other people who are
in the game and on the path yeah and you can hear the questions there ask because they probably
have the same problem they do they have the same problems you do yeah yeah fantastic so that's
extremownership.com and then we have some charities america's mighty warriors dot org doing great
stuff by momma lee mark lee's mom and then also heroes and horses dot com check that one out
both these organizations looking to help out people who have served and if you want to hear more
from us we're on social media which means in in order to enter that you gotta go you gotta go play
Russian roulette with the algorithm we're like dodgeball to be a dodgeball you can you know
some fun with it for sure but yeah you get the if that thing gets a head of you get caught up in
us they're not letting that happen in china by the way because their kids aren't allowed to be on
after such and such a time and the things that they're allowed to look at are controlled by the
state now I don't support controlling things by the state certainly but if you don't pay attention
you can waste 45 minutes on social media. You wind up you're like hey what is my thumb doing?
Why did it just go right there hit instagram and now I'm sweeping past I'm like oh stop it.
Yeah that's the algorithm's got to do it. The echo's trying to defend the algorithm.
The algorithm is like fire. You're right. It's okay. You can use it if you use it in a controlled way
but it can really easy catch catch hold of your whole household everything is burning everything is on fire.
Very just so be careful. Jason on instagram he's at Jason dot end dot gardener
and on twitter he's Jason and gardener and on the twitter on the gram and on the
Facebook he bought an echo's ad echo Charles I am at jocca willink and of course thanks to all
the military personnel out there for holding us safe here in the world holding up the flag
and doing your best to represent the ideals so everyone can see we appreciate that and of course
here at home thanks to our police and law enforcement firefighters paramedics EMTs dispatchers
correction officers board patrol secret service all the first responders thank you for what you do
here at home to keep us safe and until next time remember that there is a way of losing
that is finding and as jocca jambrelan said it is only when a man supremely gives
that he supremely finds so go out there and give and until next time this is Jason
the echo when jocco out